[![Supabase wordmark](/docs/_next/image?url=%2Fdocs%2Fsupabase-
dark.svg&w=256&q=75&dpl=dpl_BJ9ShNdrRifaAcUSP15Lr1pJVtdF)![Supabase
wordmark](/docs/_next/image?url=%2Fdocs%2Fsupabase-
light.svg&w=256&q=75&dpl=dpl_BJ9ShNdrRifaAcUSP15Lr1pJVtdF)DOCS](/docs)

  * [Start](/docs/guides/getting-started)
  * Products
  * Build
  * Manage
  * Reference
  * Resources

[![Supabase wordmark](/docs/_next/image?url=%2Fdocs%2Fsupabase-
dark.svg&w=256&q=75&dpl=dpl_BJ9ShNdrRifaAcUSP15Lr1pJVtdF)![Supabase
wordmark](/docs/_next/image?url=%2Fdocs%2Fsupabase-
light.svg&w=256&q=75&dpl=dpl_BJ9ShNdrRifaAcUSP15Lr1pJVtdF)DOCS](/docs)

Search docs...

K

Python Reference v2.0

# Python Client Library

supabase-py[View on GitHub](https://github.com/supabase/supabase-py)

This reference documents every object and method available in Supabase's
Python library, [supabase-py](https://github.com/supabase/supabase-py). You
can use supabase-py to interact with your Postgres database, listen to
database changes, invoke Deno Edge Functions, build login and user management
functionality, and manage large files.

* * *

## Installing

### Install with PyPi#

You can install supabase-py via the terminal. (for Python > 3.8)

PIPConda

Terminal

`  

_10

pip install supabase

  
`

* * *

## Initializing

You can initialize a new Supabase client using the `create_client()` method.

The Supabase client is your entrypoint to the rest of the Supabase
functionality and is the easiest way to interact with everything we offer
within the Supabase ecosystem.

### Parameters

  * supabase_urlRequiredstring

The unique Supabase URL which is supplied when you create a new project in
your project dashboard.

  * supabase_keyRequiredstring

The unique Supabase Key which is supplied when you create a new project in
your project dashboard.

  * optionsOptionalClientOptions

Options to change the Auth behaviors.

Details

create_client()With timeout option

`  

_10

import os

_10

from supabase import create_client, Client

_10

_10

url: str = os.environ.get("SUPABASE_URL")

_10

key: str = os.environ.get("SUPABASE_KEY")

_10

supabase: Client = create_client(url, key)

  
`

* * *

## Fetch data

  * By default, Supabase projects return a maximum of 1,000 rows. This setting can be changed in your project's [API settings](/dashboard/project/_/settings/api). It's recommended that you keep it low to limit the payload size of accidental or malicious requests. You can use `range()` queries to paginate through your data.
  * `select()` can be combined with [Filters](/docs/reference/python/using-filters)
  * `select()` can be combined with [Modifiers](/docs/reference/python/using-modifiers)
  * `apikey` is a reserved keyword if you're using the [Supabase Platform](/docs/guides/platform) and [should be avoided as a column name](https://github.com/supabase/supabase/issues/5465).

### Parameters

  * columnsOptionalstring

The columns to retrieve, defaults to `*`.

  * countOptionalCountMethod

The property to use to get the count of rows returned.

Getting your dataSelecting specific columnsQuery referenced tablesQuery
referenced tables through a join tableQuery the same referenced table multiple
timesFiltering through referenced tablesQuerying referenced table with
countQuerying with count optionQuerying JSON dataQuerying referenced table
with inner joinSwitching schemas per query

`  

_10

response = supabase.table("countries").select("*").execute()

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Insert data

### Parameters

  * jsonRequireddict, list

The values to insert. Pass an dict to insert a single row or an list to insert
multiple rows.

  * countOptionalCountMethod

The property to use to get the count of rows returned.

  * returningOptionalReturnMethod

Either 'minimal' or 'representation'. Defaults to 'representation'.

  * default_to_nullOptionalbool

Make missing fields default to `null`. Otherwise, use the default value for
the column. Only applies for bulk inserts.

Create a recordBulk create

`  

_10

response = (

_10

supabase.table("countries")

_10

.insert({"id": 1, "name": "Denmark"})

_10

.execute()

_10

)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Update data

  * `update()` should always be combined with [Filters](/docs/reference/python/using-filters) to target the item(s) you wish to update.

### Parameters

  * jsonRequireddict, list

The values to insert. Pass an dict to insert a single row or an list to insert
multiple rows.

  * countOptionalCountMethod

The property to use to get the count of rows returned.

Updating your dataUpdating JSON data

`  

_10

response = (

_10

supabase.table("countries")

_10

.update({"name": "Australia"})

_10

.eq("id", 1)

_10

.execute()

_10

)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Upsert data

  * Primary keys must be included in the `values` dict to use upsert.

### Parameters

  * jsonRequireddict, list

The values to insert. Pass an dict to insert a single row or an list to insert
multiple rows.

  * countOptionalCountMethod

The property to use to get the count of rows returned.

  * returningOptionalReturnMethod

Either 'minimal' or 'representation'. Defaults to 'representation'.

  * ignore_duplicatesOptionalbool

Whether duplicate rows should be ignored.

  * on_conflictOptionalstring

Specified columns to be made to work with UNIQUE constraint.

  * default_to_nullOptionalbool

Make missing fields default to `null`. Otherwise, use the default value for
the column. Only applies for bulk inserts.

Upsert your dataBulk Upsert your dataUpserting into tables with constraints

`  

_10

response = (

_10

supabase.table("countries")

_10

.upsert({"id": 1, "name": "Australia"})

_10

.execute()

_10

)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Delete data

  * `delete()` should always be combined with [filters](/docs/reference/python/using-filters) to target the item(s) you wish to delete.
  * If you use `delete()` with filters and you have [RLS](/docs/learn/auth-deep-dive/auth-row-level-security) enabled, only rows visible through `SELECT` policies are deleted. Note that by default no rows are visible, so you need at least one `SELECT`/`ALL` policy that makes the rows visible.
  * When using `delete().in_()`, specify an array of values to target multiple rows with a single query. This is particularly useful for batch deleting entries that share common criteria, such as deleting users by their IDs. Ensure that the array you provide accurately represents all records you intend to delete to avoid unintended data removal.

### Parameters

  * countOptionalCountMethod

The property to use to get the count of rows returned.

  * returningOptionalReturnMethod

Either 'minimal' or 'representation'. Defaults to 'representation'.

Delete recordsDelete multiple records

`  

_10

response = supabase.table('countries').delete().eq('id', 1).execute()

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Call a Postgres function

You can call Postgres functions as _Remote Procedure Calls_ , logic in your
database that you can execute from anywhere. Functions are useful when the
logic rarely changesâ€”like for password resets and updates.

`  

_10

create or replace function hello_world() returns text as $$

_10

select 'Hello world';

_10

$$ language sql;

  
`

### Parameters

  * fnRequiredcallable

The stored procedure call to be executed.

  * paramsOptionaldict of any

Parameters passed into the stored procedure call.

  * getOptionaldict of any

When set to `true`, `data` will not be returned. Useful if you only need the
count.

  * headOptionaldict of any

When set to `true`, the function will be called with read-only access mode.

  * countOptionalCountMethod

Count algorithm to use to count rows returned by the function. Only applicable
for [set-returning
functions](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/functions-srf.html).
`"exact"`: Exact but slow count algorithm. Performs a `COUNT(*)` under the
hood. `"planned"`: Approximated but fast count algorithm. Uses the Postgres
statistics under the hood. `"estimated"`: Uses exact count for low numbers and
planned count for high numbers.

Call a Postgres function without argumentsCall a Postgres function with
argumentsBulk processingCall a Postgres function with filtersCall a read-only
Postgres function

`  

_10

response = supabase.rpc("hello_world").execute()

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Using filters

Filters allow you to only return rows that match certain conditions.

Filters can be used on `select()`, `update()`, `upsert()`, and `delete()`
queries.

If a Postgres function returns a table response, you can also apply filters.

Applying FiltersChainingConditional chainingFilter by values within JSON
columnFilter Foreign Tables

`  

_15

# Correct

_15

response = (

_15

supabase.table("cities")

_15

.select("name, country_id")

_15

.eq("name", "Bali")

_15

.execute()

_15

)

_15

_15

# Incorrect

_15

response = (

_15

supabase.table("cities")

_15

.eq("name", "Bali")

_15

.select("name, country_id")

_15

.execute()

_15

)

  
`

Data source

Notes

* * *

## Column is equal to a value

Match only rows where `column` is equal to `value`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The column to filter on

  * valueRequiredany

The value to filter by

With `select()`

`  

_10

response = supabase.table("countries").select("*").eq("name",
"Albania").execute()

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Column is not equal to a value

Match only rows where `column` is not equal to `value`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The column to filter on

  * valueRequiredany

The value to filter by

With `select()`

`  

_10

response = supabase.table("countries").select("*").neq("name",
"Albania").execute()

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Column is greater than a value

Match only rows where `column` is greather than `value`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The column to filter on

  * valueRequiredany

The value to filter by

With `select()`

`  

_10

response = supabase.table("countries").select("*").gt("id", 2).execute()

  
`

Data source

Response

Notes

* * *

## Column is greater than or equal to a value

Match only rows where `column` is greater than or equal to `value`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The column to filter on

  * valueRequiredany

The value to filter by

With `select()`

`  

_10

response = supabase.table("countries").select("*").gte("id", 2).execute()

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Column is less than a value

Match only rows where `column` is less than `value`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The column to filter on

  * valueRequiredany

The value to filter by

With `select()`

`  

_10

response = supabase.table("countries").select("*").lt("id", 2).execute()

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Column is less than or equal to a value

Match only rows where `column` is less than or equal to `value`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The column to filter on

  * valueRequiredany

The value to filter by

With `select()`

`  

_10

response = supabase.table("countries").select("*").lte("id", 2).execute()

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Column matches a pattern

Match only rows where `column` matches `pattern` case-sensitively.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The name of the column to apply a filter on

  * patternRequiredstring

The pattern to match by

With `select()`

`  

_10

response = supabase.table("countries").select("*").like("name",
"%Alba%").execute()

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Column matches a case-insensitive pattern

Match only rows where `column` matches `pattern` case-insensitively.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The name of the column to apply a filter on

  * patternRequiredstring

The pattern to match by

With `select()`

`  

_10

response = supabase.table("countries").select("*").ilike("name",
"%alba%").execute()

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Column is a value

Match only rows where `column` IS `value`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The name of the column to apply a filter on

  * valueRequirednull | boolean

The value to match by

Checking for nullness, True or False

`  

_10

response = supabase.table("countries").select("*").is_("name",
"null").execute()

  
`

Data source

Response

Notes

* * *

## Column is in an array

Match only rows where `column` is included in the `values` array.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The column to filter on

  * valuesRequiredarray

The values to filter by

With `select()`

`  

_10

response = (

_10

supabase.table("countries")

_10

.select("*")

_10

.in_("name", ["Albania", "Algeria"])

_10

.execute()

_10

)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Column contains every element in a value

Only relevant for jsonb, array, and range columns. Match only rows where
`column` contains every element appearing in `value`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The column to filter on

  * valuesRequiredobject

The jsonb, array, or range value to filter with

On array columnsOn range columnsOn `jsonb` columns

`  

_10

response = (

_10

supabase.table("issues")

_10

.select("*")

_10

.contains("tags", ["is:open", "priority:low"])

_10

.execute()

_10

)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Contained by value

Only relevant for jsonb, array, and range columns. Match only rows where every
element appearing in `column` is contained by `value`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The jsonb, array, or range column to filter on

  * valueRequiredobject

The jsonb, array, or range value to filter with

On array columnsOn range columnsOn `jsonb` columns

`  

_10

response = (

_10

supabase.table("classes")

_10

.select("name")

_10

.contained_by("days", ["monday", "tuesday", "wednesday", "friday"])

_10

.execute()

_10

)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Greater than a range

Only relevant for range columns. Match only rows where every element in
`column` is greater than any element in `range`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The range column to filter on

  * rangeRequiredarray

The range to filter with

With `select()`

`  

_10

response = (

_10

supabase.table("reservations")

_10

.select("*")

_10

.range_gt("during", ["2000-01-02 08:00", "2000-01-02 09:00"])

_10

.execute()

_10

)

  
`

Data source

Response

Notes

* * *

## Greater than or equal to a range

Only relevant for range columns. Match only rows where every element in
`column` is either contained in `range` or greater than any element in
`range`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The range column to filter on

  * rangeRequiredstring

The range to filter with

With `select()`

`  

_10

response = (

_10

supabase.table("reservations")

_10

.select("*")

_10

.range_gte("during", ["2000-01-02 08:30", "2000-01-02 09:30"])

_10

.execute()

_10

)

  
`

Data source

Response

Notes

* * *

## Less than a range

Only relevant for range columns. Match only rows where every element in
`column` is less than any element in `range`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The range column to filter on

  * rangeRequiredarray

The range to filter with

With `select()`

`  

_10

response = (

_10

supabase.table("reservations")

_10

.select("*")

_10

.range_lt("during", ["2000-01-01 15:00", "2000-01-01 16:00"])

_10

.execute()

_10

)

  
`

Data source

Response

Notes

* * *

## Less than or equal to a range

Only relevant for range columns. Match only rows where every element in
`column` is less than any element in `range`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The range column to filter on

  * rangeRequiredarray

The range to filter with

With `select()`

`  

_10

response = (

_10

supabase.table("reservations")

_10

.select("*")

_10

.range_lte("during", ["2000-01-01 14:00", "2000-01-01 16:00"])

_10

.execute()

_10

)

  
`

Data source

Response

Notes

* * *

## Mutually exclusive to a range

Only relevant for range columns. Match only rows where `column` is mutually
exclusive to `range` and there can be no element between the two ranges.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The range column to filter on

  * rangeRequiredarray

The range to filter with

With `select()`

`  

_10

response = (

_10

supabase.table("reservations")

_10

.select("*")

_10

.range_adjacent("during", ["2000-01-01 12:00", "2000-01-01 13:00"])

_10

.execute()

_10

)

  
`

Data source

Response

Notes

* * *

## With a common element

Only relevant for array and range columns. Match only rows where `column` and
`value` have an element in common.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The array or range column to filter on

  * valueRequiredIterable[Any]

The array or range value to filter with

On array columnsOn range columns

`  

_10

response = (

_10

supabase.table("issues")

_10

.select("title")

_10

.overlaps("tags", ["is:closed", "severity:high"])

_10

.execute()

_10

)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Match a string

Only relevant for text and tsvector columns. Match only rows where `column`
matches the query string in `query`.

  * For more information, see [Postgres full text search](/docs/guides/database/full-text-search).

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The text or tsvector column to filter on

  * queryRequiredstring

The query text to match with

  * optionsOptionalobject

Named parameters

Details

Text searchBasic normalizationFull normalizationWebsearch

`  

_10

response = (

_10

supabase.table("texts")

_10

.select("content")

_10

.text_search("content", "'eggs' & 'ham'", options={"config": "english"})

_10

.execute()

_10

)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Match an associated value

Match only rows where each column in `query` keys is equal to its associated
value. Shorthand for multiple `.eq()`s.

### Parameters

  * queryRequireddict

The object to filter with, with column names as keys mapped to their filter
values

With `select()`

`  

_10

response = (

_10

supabase.table("countries")

_10

.select("*")

_10

.match({"id": 2, "name": "Albania"})

_10

.execute()

_10

)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Don't match the filter

Match only rows which doesn't satisfy the filter. `not_` expects you to use
the raw PostgREST syntax for the filter values.

`  

_10

.not_.in_('id', '(5,6,7)') # Use `()` for `in` filter

_10

.not_.contains('arraycol', '{"a","b"}') # Use `{}` for array values

  
`

With `select()`

`  

_10

response = (

_10

supabase.table("countries")

_10

.select("*")

_10

.not_.is_("name", "null")

_10

.execute()

_10

)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Match at least one filter

or_() expects you to use the raw PostgREST syntax for the filter names and
values.

`  

_10

.or_('id.in.(5,6,7), arraycol.cs.{"a","b"}') # Use `()` for `in` filter, `{}`
for array values and `cs` for `contains()`.

_10

.or_('id.in.(5,6,7), arraycol.cd.{"a","b"}') # Use `cd` for `containedBy()`

  
`

### Parameters

  * filtersRequiredstring

The filters to use, following PostgREST syntax

  * reference_tableOptionalstring

Set this to filter on referenced tables instead of the parent table

With `select()`Use `or` with `and`Use `or` on referenced tables

`  

_10

response = (

_10

supabase.table("countries")

_10

.select("name")

_10

.or_("id.eq.2,name.eq.Algeria")

_10

.execute()

_10

)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Match the filter

filter() expects you to use the raw PostgREST syntax for the filter values.

`  

_10

.filter('id', 'in', '(5,6,7)') # Use `()` for `in` filter

_10

.filter('arraycol', 'cs', '{"a","b"}') # Use `cs` for `contains()`, `{}` for
array values

  
`

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The column to filter on

  * operatorOptionalstring

The operator to filter with, following PostgREST syntax

  * valueOptionalany

The value to filter with, following PostgREST syntax

With `select()`On a foreign table

`  

_10

response = (

_10

supabase.table("countries")

_10

.select("*")

_10

.filter("name", "in", '("Algeria","Japan")')

_10

.execute()

_10

)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Using modifiers

Filters work on the row levelâ€”they allow you to return rows that only match
certain conditions without changing the shape of the rows. Modifiers are
everything that don't fit that definitionâ€”allowing you to change the format of
the response (e.g., returning a CSV string).

Modifiers must be specified after filters. Some modifiers only apply for
queries that return rows (e.g., `select()` or `rpc()` on a function that
returns a table response).

* * *

## Order the results

Order the query result by `column`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredstring

The column to order by

  * descOptionalbool

Whether the rows should be ordered in descending order or not.

  * foreign_tableOptionalstring

Foreign table name whose results are to be ordered.

  * nullsfirstOptionalbool

Order by showing nulls first

With `select()`On a foreign table

`  

_10

response = (

_10

supabase.table("countries")

_10

.select("*")

_10

.order("name", desc=True)

_10

.execute()

_10

)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Limit the number of rows returned

### Parameters

  * sizeRequirednumber

The maximum number of rows to return

  * foreign_tableOptionalstring

Set this to limit rows of foreign tables instead of the parent table.

With `select()`On a foreign table

`  

_10

response = supabase.table("countries").select("name").limit(1).execute()

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Limit the query to a range

Limit the query result by starting at an offset (`from`) and ending at the
offset (`from + to`). Only records within this range are returned. This
respects the query order and if there is no order clause the range could
behave unexpectedly.

The `from` and `to` values are 0-based and inclusive: `range(1, 3)` will
include the second, third and fourth rows of the query.

### Parameters

  * startRequirednumber

The starting index from which to limit the result.

  * endRequirednumber

The last index to which to limit the result.

  * foreign_tableOptionalstring

Set this to limit rows of foreign tables instead of the parent table.

With `select()`On a foreign table

`  

_10

response = supabase.table("countries").select("name").range(0, 1).execute()

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Retrieve one row of data

Return `data` as a single object instead of an array of objects.

With `select()`

`  

_10

response =
supabase.table("countries").select("name").limit(1).single().execute()

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Retrieve zero or one row of data

Return `data` as a single object instead of an array of objects.

With `select()`

`  

_10

response = (

_10

supabase.table("countries")

_10

.select("*")

_10

.eq("name", "Albania")

_10

.maybe_single()

_10

.execute()

_10

)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Retrieve as a CSV

Return `data` as a string in CSV format.

Return data as CSV

`  

_10

response = supabase.table("countries").select("*").csv().execute()

  
`

Data source

Response

Notes

* * *

## Using explain

For debugging slow queries, you can get the [Postgres `EXPLAIN` execution
plan](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-explain.html) of a query
using the `explain()` method. This works on any query, even for `rpc()` or
writes.

Explain is not enabled by default as it can reveal sensitive information about
your database. It's best to only enable this for testing environments but if
you wish to enable it for production you can provide additional protection by
using a `pre-request` function.

Follow the [Performance Debugging Guide](/docs/guides/database/debugging-
performance) to enable the functionality on your project.

### Parameters

  * walOptionalboolean

If `true`, include information on WAL record generation.

  * verboseOptionalboolean

If `true`, the query identifier will be returned and `data` will include the
output columns of the query.

  * settingsOptionalboolean

If `true`, include information on configuration parameters that affect query
planning.

  * formatOptionalboolean

The format of the output, can be `"text"` (default) or `"json"`.

  * formatOptional"text" | "json"

The format of the output, can be `"text"` (default) or `"json"`.

  * buffersOptionalboolean

If `true`, include information on buffer usage.

  * analyzeOptionalboolean

If `true`, the query will be executed and the actual run time will be
returned.

Get the execution planGet the execution plan with analyze and verbose

`  

_10

response = supabase.table("countries").select("*").explain().execute()

  
`

Data source

Response

Notes

* * *

## Overview

  * The auth methods can be accessed via the `supabase.auth` namespace.
  * By default, the supabase client sets `persist_session` to true and attempts to store the session in memory.
  * Any email links and one-time passwords (OTPs) sent have a default expiry of 24 hours. We have the following [rate limits](/docs/guides/platform/going-into-prod#auth-rate-limits) in place to guard against brute force attacks.
  * The expiry of an access token can be set in the "JWT expiry limit" field in [your project's auth settings](/dashboard/project/_/settings/auth). A refresh token never expires and can only be used once.

* * *

## Create a new user

  * By default, the user needs to verify their email address before logging in. To turn this off, disable **Confirm email** in [your project](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/auth/providers).
  * **Confirm email** determines if users need to confirm their email address after signing up.
    * If **Confirm email** is enabled, a `user` is returned but `session` is null.
    * If **Confirm email** is disabled, both a `user` and a `session` are returned.
  * By default, when the user confirms their email address, they are redirected to the [`SITE_URL`](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/redirect-urls). You can modify your `SITE_URL` or add additional redirect URLs in [your project](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/auth/url-configuration).
  * If sign_up() is called for an existing confirmed user:
    * When both **Confirm email** and **Confirm phone** (even when phone provider is disabled) are enabled in [your project](/dashboard/project/_/auth/providers), an obfuscated/fake user object is returned.
    * When either **Confirm email** or **Confirm phone** (even when phone provider is disabled) is disabled, the error message, `User already registered` is returned.
  * To fetch the currently logged-in user, refer to [`get_user()`](/docs/reference/python/auth-getuser).

### Parameters

  * credentialsRequiredSignUpWithPasswordCredentials

Details

Sign up with an email and passwordSign up with a phone number and password
(SMS)Sign up with a phone number and password (whatsapp)Sign up with
additional user metadataSign up with a redirect URL

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.sign_up(

_10

{"email": "[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)", "password":
"password"}

_10

)

  
`

Response

* * *

## Create an anonymous user

  * Returns an anonymous user
  * It is recommended to set up captcha for anonymous sign-ins to prevent abuse. You can pass in the captcha token in the `options` param.

### Parameters

  * credentialsRequiredSignInAnonymouslyCredentials

Details

Create an anonymous userCreate an anonymous user with custom user metadata

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.sign_in_anonymously(

_10

{"options": {"captcha_token": ""}}

_10

)

  
`

Response

* * *

## Sign in a user

Log in an existing user with an email and password or phone and password.

  * Requires either an email and password or a phone number and password.

### Parameters

  * credentialsRequiredSignInWithPasswordCredentials

Details

Sign in with email and passwordSign in with phone and password

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.sign_in_with_password(

_10

{"email": "[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)", "password":
"example-password"}

_10

)

  
`

Response

* * *

## Sign in with ID Token

Allows signing in with an OIDC ID token. The authentication provider used
should be enabled and configured.

### Parameters

  * credentialsRequiredSignInWithIdTokenCredentials

Details

Sign In using ID Token

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.sign_in_with_id_token(

_10

{"provider": "google", "token": "your-id-token"}

_10

)

  
`

Response

* * *

## Sign in a user through OTP

  * Requires either an email or phone number.
  * This method is used for passwordless sign-ins where a OTP is sent to the user's email or phone number.
  * If the user doesn't exist, `sign_in_with_otp()` will signup the user instead. To restrict this behavior, you can set `should_create_user` in `SignInWithPasswordlessCredentials.options` to `false`.
  * If you're using an email, you can configure whether you want the user to receive a magiclink or a OTP.
  * If you're using phone, you can configure whether you want the user to receive a OTP.
  * The magic link's destination URL is determined by the [`SITE_URL`](/docs/guides/auth/redirect-urls).
  * See [redirect URLs and wildcards](/docs/guides/auth/overview#redirect-urls-and-wildcards) to add additional redirect URLs to your project.
  * Magic links and OTPs share the same implementation. To send users a one-time code instead of a magic link, [modify the magic link email template](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/auth/templates) to include `{{ .Token }}` instead of `{{ .ConfirmationURL }}`.

### Parameters

  * credentialsRequiredSignInWithPasswordCredentials

Details

Sign in with emailSign in with SMS OTPSign in with WhatsApp OTP

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.sign_in_with_otp(

_10

{

_10

"email": "[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)",

_10

"options": {"email_redirect_to": "https://example.com/welcome"},

_10

}

_10

)

  
`

Response

Notes

* * *

## Sign in a user through OAuth

  * This method is used for signing in using a third-party provider.
  * Supabase supports many different [third-party providers](/docs/guides/auth#configure-third-party-providers).

### Parameters

  * credentialsRequiredSignInWithOAuthCredentials

Details

Sign in using a third-party providerSign in using a third-party provider with
redirectSign in with scopes

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.sign_in_with_oauth({

_10

"provider": 'github'

_10

})

  
`

* * *

## Sign in a user through SSO

  * Before you can call this method you need to [establish a connection](/docs/guides/auth/sso/auth-sso-saml#managing-saml-20-connections) to an identity provider. Use the [CLI commands](/docs/reference/cli/supabase-sso) to do this.
  * If you've associated an email domain to the identity provider, you can use the `domain` property to start a sign-in flow.
  * In case you need to use a different way to start the authentication flow with an identity provider, you can use the `provider_id` property. For example:
    * Mapping specific user email addresses with an identity provider.
    * Using different hints to identity the identity provider to be used by the user, like a company-specific page, IP address or other tracking information.

### Parameters

  * paramsRequiredSignInWithSSOCredentials

Details

Sign in with email domainSign in with provider UUID

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.sign_in_with_sso({"domain": "company.com"})

  
`

Response

Notes

* * *

## Sign out a user

  * In order to use the `sign_out()` method, the user needs to be signed in first.
  * By default, `sign_out()` uses the global scope, which signs out all other sessions that the user is logged into as well.
  * Since Supabase Auth uses JWTs for authentication, the access token JWT will be valid until it's expired. When the user signs out, Supabase revokes the refresh token and deletes the JWT from the client-side. This does not revoke the JWT and it will still be valid until it expires.

### Parameters

  * optionsOptionalSignOutOptions

Details

Sign out

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.sign_out()

  
`

* * *

## Send a password reset request

  * The password reset flow consist of 2 broad steps: (i) Allow the user to login via the password reset link; (ii) Update the user's password.
  * The `reset_password_for_email()` only sends a password reset link to the user's email. To update the user's password, see [`update_user()`](/docs/reference/python/auth-updateuser).
  * When the user clicks the reset link in the email they are redirected back to your application. You can configure the URL that the user is redirected to with the `redirectTo` parameter. See [redirect URLs and wildcards](/docs/guides/auth#redirect-urls-and-wildcards) to add additional redirect URLs to your project.
  * After the user has been redirected successfully, prompt them for a new password and call `update_user()`:

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.update_user({

_10

"password": new_password

_10

})

  
`

### Parameters

  * emailRequiredstring

The email address of the user.

  * optionsOptionalobject

Details

Reset password

`  

_10

supabase.auth.reset_password_for_email(email, {

_10

"redirect_to": "https://example.com/update-password",

_10

})

  
`

* * *

## Verify and log in through OTP

  * The `verify_otp` method takes in different verification types. If a phone number is used, the type can either be `sms` or `phone_change`. If an email address is used, the type can be one of the following: `email`, `recovery`, `invite` or `email_change` (`signup` and `magiclink` types are deprecated).
  * The verification type used should be determined based on the corresponding auth method called before `verify_otp` to sign up / sign-in a user.
  * The `TokenHash` is contained in the [email templates](/docs/guides/auth/auth-email-templates) and can be used to sign in. You may wish to use the hash with Magic Links for the PKCE flow for Server Side Auth. See [this guide](/docs/guides/auth/server-side/email-based-auth-with-pkce-flow-for-ssr) for more details.

### Parameters

  * paramsRequiredVerifyOtpParams

Details

Verify Signup One-Time Password (OTP)Verify SMS One-Time Password (OTP)Verify
Email Auth (Token Hash)

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.verify_otp(

_10

{"email": "[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)", "token":
"123456", "type": "email"}

_10

)

  
`

Response

* * *

## Retrieve a session

  * This method retrieves the current local session (i.e in memory).
  * The session contains a signed JWT and unencoded session data.
  * Since the unencoded session data is retrieved from the local storage medium, **do not** rely on it as a source of trusted data on the server. It could be tampered with by the sender. If you need verified, trustworthy user data, call [`get_user`](/docs/reference/python/auth-getuser) instead.
  * If the session has an expired access token, this method will use the refresh token to get a new session.

Get the session data

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.get_session()

  
`

Response

* * *

## Retrieve a new session

Returns a new session, regardless of expiry status. Takes in an optional
refresh token. If not passed in, then refresh_session() will attempt to
retrieve it from get_session(). If the current session's refresh token is
invalid, an error will be thrown.

  * This method will refresh the session whether the current one is expired or not.

### Parameters

  * refresh_tokenOptionalstring

Refresh session using the current session

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.refresh_session()

  
`

Response

* * *

## Retrieve a user

  * This method fetches the user object from the database instead of local session.
  * This method is useful for checking if the user is authorized because it validates the user's access token JWT on the server.

### Parameters

  * jwtOptionalstring

Takes in an optional access token JWT. If no JWT is provided, the JWT from the
current session is used.

Get the logged in user with the current existing sessionGet the logged in user
with a custom access token jwt

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.get_user()

  
`

Response

* * *

## Update a user

  * In order to use the `update_user()` method, the user needs to be signed in first.
  * By default, email updates sends a confirmation link to both the user's current and new email. To only send a confirmation link to the user's new email, disable **Secure email change** in your project's [email auth provider settings](/dashboard/project/_/auth/providers).

Update the email for an authenticated userUpdate the phone number for an
authenticated userUpdate the password for an authenticated userUpdate the
user's metadataUpdate the user's password with a nonce

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.update_user({

_10

"email": "[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)"

_10

})

  
`

Response

Notes

* * *

## Retrieve identities linked to a user

Gets all the identities linked to a user.

  * The user needs to be signed in to call `get_user_identities()`.

Returns a list of identities linked to the user

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.get_user_identities()

  
`

Response

* * *

## Link an identity to a user

  * The **Enable Manual Linking** option must be enabled from your [project's authentication settings](/dashboard/project/_/settings/auth).
  * The user needs to be signed in to call `link_identity()`.
  * If the candidate identity is already linked to the existing user or another user, `link_identity()` will fail.
  * If `link_identity` is run on the server, you should handle the redirect.

### Parameters

  * credentialsRequiredSignInWithOAuthCredentials

Details

Link an identity to a user

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.link_identity({

_10

provider: 'github'

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Unlink an identity from a user

  * The **Enable Manual Linking** option must be enabled from your [project's authentication settings](/dashboard/project/_/settings/auth).
  * The user needs to be signed in to call `unlink_identity()`.
  * The user must have at least 2 identities in order to unlink an identity.
  * The identity to be unlinked must belong to the user.

### Parameters

  * identityRequiredUserIdentity

Details

Unlink an identity

`  

_10

# retrieve all identites linked to a user

_10

res = supabase.auth.get_user_identities()

_10

_10

# find the google identity

_10

google_identity = list(

_10

filter(lambda identity: identity.provider == "google", res.identities)

_10

).pop()

_10

_10

# unlink the google identity

_10

response = supabase.auth.unlink_identity(google_identity)

  
`

* * *

## Send a password reauthentication nonce

  * This method is used together with `updateUser()` when a user's password needs to be updated.
  * If you require your user to reauthenticate before updating their password, you need to enable the **Secure password change** option in your [project's email provider settings](/dashboard/project/_/auth/providers).
  * A user is only require to reauthenticate before updating their password if **Secure password change** is enabled and the user **hasn't recently signed in**. A user is deemed recently signed in if the session was created in the last 24 hours.
  * This method will send a nonce to the user's email. If the user doesn't have a confirmed email address, the method will send the nonce to the user's confirmed phone number instead.

Send reauthentication nonce

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.reauthenticate()

  
`

Notes

* * *

## Resend an OTP

  * Resends a signup confirmation, email change or phone change email to the user.
  * Passwordless sign-ins can be resent by calling the `sign_in_with_otp()` method again.
  * Password recovery emails can be resent by calling the `reset_password_for_email()` method again.
  * This method will only resend an email or phone OTP to the user if there was an initial signup, email change or phone change request being made.
  * You can specify a redirect url when you resend an email link using the `email_redirect_to` option.

### Parameters

  * credentialsRequiredResendCredentials

Details

Resend an email signup confirmationResend a phone signup confirmationResend
email change emailResend phone change OTP

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.resend({

_10

"type": "signup",

_10

"email": "[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)",

_10

"options": {

_10

"email_redirect_to": "https://example.com/welcome"

_10

}

_10

})

  
`

Notes

* * *

## Set the session data

Sets the session data from the current session. If the current session is
expired, setSession will take care of refreshing it to obtain a new session.
If the refresh token or access token in the current session is invalid, an
error will be thrown.

  * This method sets the session using an `access_token` and `refresh_token`.
  * If successful, a `SIGNED_IN` event is emitted.

### Parameters

  * access_tokenRequiredstring

  * refresh_tokenRequiredstring

Refresh the session

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.set_session(access_token, refresh_token)

  
`

Response

Notes

* * *

## Exchange an auth code for a session

Log in an existing user by exchanging an Auth Code issued during the PKCE
flow.

  * Used when `flow_type` is set to `pkce` in client options.

### Parameters

  * auth_codeRequiredstring

Exchange Auth Code

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.exchange_code_for_session("auth_code":
"34e770dd-9ff9-416c-87fa-43b31d7ef225")

  
`

Response

* * *

## Auth MFA

This section contains methods commonly used for Multi-Factor Authentication
(MFA) and are invoked behind the `supabase.auth.mfa` namespace.

Currently, we only support time-based one-time password (TOTP) as the 2nd
factor. We don't support recovery codes but we allow users to enroll more than
1 TOTP factor, with an upper limit of 10.

Having a 2nd TOTP factor for recovery frees the user of the burden of having
to store their recovery codes somewhere. It also reduces the attack surface
since multiple recovery codes are usually generated compared to just having 1
backup TOTP factor.

* * *

## Enroll a factor

  * Currently, `totp` is the only supported `factor_type`. The returned `id` should be used to create a challenge.
  * To create a challenge, see [`mfa.challenge()`](/docs/reference/python/auth-mfa-challenge).
  * To verify a challenge, see [`mfa.verify()`](/docs/reference/python/auth-mfa-verify).
  * To create and verify a challenge in a single step, see [`mfa.challenge_and_verify()`](/docs/reference/python/auth-mfa-challengeandverify).

Enroll a time-based, one-time password (TOTP) factor

`  

_10

res = supabase.auth.mfa.enroll({

_10

"factor_type": "totp",

_10

"friendly_name": "your_friendly_name"

_10

})

  
`

* * *

## Create a challenge

  * An [enrolled factor](/docs/reference/python/auth-mfa-enroll) is required before creating a challenge.
  * To verify a challenge, see [`mfa.verify()`](/docs/reference/python/auth-mfa-verify).

Create a challenge for a factor

`  

_10

res = supabase.auth.mfa.challenge({

_10

"factor_id": '34e770dd-9ff9-416c-87fa-43b31d7ef225'

_10

})

  
`

* * *

## Verify a challenge

  * To verify a challenge, please [create a challenge](/docs/reference/python/auth-mfa-challenge) first.

Verify a challenge for a factor

`  

_10

res = supabase.auth.mfa.verify({

_10

"factor_id": '34e770dd-9ff9-416c-87fa-43b31d7ef225',

_10

"challenge_id": '4034ae6f-a8ce-4fb5-8ee5-69a5863a7c15',

_10

"code": '123456'

_10

})

  
`

* * *

## Create and verify a challenge

  * An [enrolled factor](/docs/reference/python/auth-mfa-enroll) is required before invoking `challengeAndVerify()`.
  * Executes [`mfa.challenge()`](/docs/reference/python/auth-mfa-challenge) and [`mfa.verify()`](/docs/reference/python/auth-mfa-verify) in a single step.

Create and verify a challenge for a factor

`  

_10

res = supabase.auth.mfa.challenge_and_verify({

_10

"factor_id": '34e770dd-9ff9-416c-87fa-43b31d7ef225',

_10

"code": '123456'

_10

})

  
`

* * *

## Unenroll a factor

Unenroll a factor

`  

_10

res = supabase.auth.mfa.unenroll({

_10

"factor_id": '34e770dd-9ff9-416c-87fa-43b31d7ef225',

_10

})

  
`

* * *

## Get Authenticator Assurance Level

  * Authenticator Assurance Level (AAL) is the measure of the strength of an authentication mechanism.
  * In Supabase, having an AAL of `aal1` refers to having the 1st factor of authentication such as an email and password or OAuth sign-in while `aal2` refers to the 2nd factor of authentication such as a time-based, one-time-password (TOTP).
  * If the user has a verified factor, the `next_level` field will return `aal2`, else, it will return `aal1`.

Get the AAL details of a session

`  

_10

res = supabase.auth.mfa.get_authenticator_assurance_level()

  
`

* * *

## Auth Admin

  * Any method under the `supabase.auth.admin` namespace requires a `service_role` key.
  * These methods are considered admin methods and should be called on a trusted server. Never expose your `service_role` key in the browser.

Create server-side auth client

`  

_14

from supabase import create_client

_14

from supabase.lib.client_options import ClientOptions

_14

_14

supabase = create_client(

_14

supabase_url,

_14

service_role_key,

_14

options=ClientOptions(

_14

auto_refresh_token=False,

_14

persist_session=False,

_14

)

_14

)

_14

_14

# Access auth admin api

_14

admin_auth_client = supabase.auth.admin

  
`

* * *

## Retrieve a user

  * Fetches the user object from the database based on the user's id.
  * The `get_user_by_id()` method requires the user's id which maps to the `auth.users.id` column.

### Parameters

  * uidRequiredstring

The user's unique identifier

This function should only be called on a server. Never expose your
`service_role` key in the browser.

Fetch the user object using the access_token jwt

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.admin.get_user_by_id(1)

  
`

Response

* * *

## List all users

  * Defaults to return 50 users per page.

### Parameters

  * paramsOptionalPageParams

An object which supports page and perPage as numbers, to alter the paginated
results.

Details

Get a page of usersPaginated list of users

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.admin.list_users()

  
`

* * *

## Create a user

  * To confirm the user's email address or phone number, set `email_confirm` or `phone_confirm` to true. Both arguments default to false.
  * `create_user()` will not send a confirmation email to the user. You can use [`invite_user_by_email()`](/docs/reference/python/auth-admin-inviteuserbyemail) if you want to send them an email invite instead.
  * If you are sure that the created user's email or phone number is legitimate and verified, you can set the `email_confirm` or `phone_confirm` param to `true`.

### Parameters

  * attributesRequiredAdminUserAttributes

Details

With custom user metadataAuto-confirm the user's emailAuto-confirm the user's
phone number

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.admin.create_user({

_10

"email": "[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)",

_10

"password": "password",

_10

"user_metadata": { "name": "Yoda" }

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Delete a user

Delete a user. Requires a `service_role` key.

  * The `delete_user()` method requires the user's ID, which maps to the `auth.users.id` column.

### Parameters

  * idRequiredstring

The user id you want to remove.

  * should_soft_deleteOptionalboolean

If true, then the user will be soft-deleted (setting `deleted_at` to the
current timestamp and disabling their account while preserving their data)
from the auth schema. Defaults to false for backward compatibility.

This function should only be called on a server. Never expose your
`service_role` key in the browser.

Removes a user

`  

_10

supabase.auth.admin.delete_user(

_10

"715ed5db-f090-4b8c-a067-640ecee36aa0"

_10

)

  
`

* * *

## Send an email invite link

Sends an invite link to an email address.

  * Sends an invite link to the user's email address.
  * The `invite_user_by_email()` method is typically used by administrators to invite users to join the application.
  * Note that PKCE is not supported when using `invite_user_by_email`. This is because the browser initiating the invite is often different from the browser accepting the invite which makes it difficult to provide the security guarantees required of the PKCE flow.

### Parameters

  * emailRequiredstring

The email address of the user.

  * optionsOptionalInviteUserByEmailOptions

Details

Invite a user

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.admin.invite_user_by_email("[[email protected]](/cdn-
cgi/l/email-protection)")

  
`

Response

* * *

## Generate an email link

  * The following types can be passed into `generate_link()`: `signup`, `magiclink`, `invite`, `recovery`, `email_change_current`, `email_change_new`, `phone_change`.
  * `generate_link()` only generates the email link for `email_change_email` if the **Secure email change** is enabled in your project's [email auth provider settings](/dashboard/project/_/auth/providers).
  * `generate_link()` handles the creation of the user for `signup`, `invite` and `magiclink`.

### Parameters

  * paramsRequiredGenerateLinkParams

Details

Generate a signup linkGenerate an invite linkGenerate a magic linkGenerate a
recovery linkGenerate links to change current email address

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.admin.generate_link({

_10

"type": "signup",

_10

"email": "[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)",

_10

"password": "secret"

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Update a user

### Parameters

  * uidRequiredstring

  * attributesRequiredAdminUserAttributes

The data you want to update.

This function should only be called on a server. Never expose your
`service_role` key in the browser.

Details

Updates a user's emailUpdates a user's passwordUpdates a user's
metadataUpdates a user's app_metadataConfirms a user's email addressConfirms a
user's phone number

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.admin.update_user_by_id(

_10

"11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111",

_10

{ "email": "[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)" }

_10

)

  
`

Response

* * *

## Delete a factor for a user

Deletes a factor on a user. This will log the user out of all active sessions
if the deleted factor was verified.

### Parameters

  * paramsRequiredAuthMFAAdminDeleteFactorParams

Details

Delete a factor for a user

`  

_10

response = supabase.auth.admin.mfa.delete_factor({

_10

"id": "34e770dd-9ff9-416c-87fa-43b31d7ef225",

_10

"user_id": "a89baba7-b1b7-440f-b4bb-91026967f66b",

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Invokes a Supabase Edge Function.

Invoke a Supabase Function.

  * Requires an Authorization header.
  * When you pass in a body to your function, we automatically attach the Content-Type header for `Blob`, `ArrayBuffer`, `File`, `FormData` and `String`. If it doesn't match any of these types we assume the payload is `json`, serialise it and attach the `Content-Type` header as `application/json`. You can override this behaviour by passing in a `Content-Type` header of your own.

Basic invocationError handlingPassing custom headers

`  

_10

response = supabase.functions.invoke(

_10

"hello-world", invoke_options={"body": {"name": "Functions"}}

_10

)

  
`

* * *

## Subscribe to channel

  * By default, Broadcast and Presence are enabled for all projects.
  * By default, listening to database changes is disabled for new projects due to database performance and security concerns. You can turn it on by managing Realtime's [replication](/docs/guides/api#realtime-api-overview).
  * You can receive the "previous" data for updates and deletes by setting the table's `REPLICA IDENTITY` to `FULL` (e.g., `ALTER TABLE your_table REPLICA IDENTITY FULL;`).
  * Row level security is not applied to delete statements. When RLS is enabled and replica identity is set to full, only the primary key is sent to clients.

Listen to broadcast messagesListen to presence syncListen to presence
joinListen to presence leaveListen to all database changesListen to a specific
tableListen to insertsListen to updatesListen to deletesListen to multiple
eventsListen to row level changes

`  

_10

channel = supabase.channel("room1")

_10

_10

def on_subscribe(status, err):

_10

if status == RealtimeSubscribeStates.SUBSCRIBED:

_10

channel.send_broadcast('cursor-pos', { "x": random.random(), "y":
random.random() })

_10

_10

def handle_broadcast(payload):

_10

print("Cursor position received!", payload)

_10

_10

channel.on_broadcast(event="cursor-pos",
callback=handle_broadcast).subscribe(on_subscribe)

  
`

* * *

## Unsubscribe from a channel

  * Removing a channel is a great way to maintain the performance of your project's Realtime service as well as your database if you're listening to Postgres changes. Supabase will automatically handle cleanup 30 seconds after a client is disconnected, but unused channels may cause degradation as more clients are simultaneously subscribed.

Removes a channel

`  

_10

supabase.remove_channel(myChannel)

  
`

* * *

## Unsubscribe from all channels

  * Removing channels is a great way to maintain the performance of your project's Realtime service as well as your database if you're listening to Postgres changes. Supabase will automatically handle cleanup 30 seconds after a client is disconnected, but unused channels may cause degradation as more clients are simultaneously subscribed.

Remove all channels

`  

_10

supabase.remove_all_channels()

  
`

* * *

## Retrieve all channels

Get all channels

`  

_10

channels = supabase.get_channels()

  
`

* * *

## Broadcast a message

Broadcast a message to all connected clients to a channel.

Send a message via websocket

`  

_10

channel = supabase.channel('room1')

_10

_10

def on_subscribe(status, err):

_10

if status == RealtimeSubscribeStates.SUBSCRIBED:

_10

channel.send_broadcast('cursor-pos', { "x": random.random(), "y":
random.random() })

_10

_10

channel.subscribe(on_subscribe)

  
`

Response

* * *

## Create a bucket

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: `insert`
    * `objects` table permissions: none
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

Create bucket

`  

_10

res = supabase.storage.create_bucket(name)

  
`

* * *

## Retrieve a bucket

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: `select`
    * `objects` table permissions: none
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

Get bucket

`  

_10

res = supabase.storage.get_bucket(name)

  
`

* * *

## List all buckets

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: `select`
    * `objects` table permissions: none
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

List buckets

`  

_10

res = supabase.storage.list_buckets()

  
`

* * *

## Delete a bucket

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: `select` and `delete`
    * `objects` table permissions: none
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

Delete bucket

`  

_10

res = supabase.storage.delete_bucket(name)

  
`

* * *

## Empty a bucket

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: `select`
    * `objects` table permissions: `select` and `delete`
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

Empty bucket

`  

_10

res = supabase.storage.empty_bucket(name)

  
`

* * *

## Upload a file

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: none
    * `objects` table permissions: `insert`
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works
  * Please specify the appropriate content [MIME type](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types) if you are uploading images or audio. If no `file_options` are specified, the MIME type defaults to `text/html`.

Upload file using filepath

`  

_10

with open(filepath, 'rb') as f:

_10

supabase.storage.from_("testbucket").upload(file=f,path=path_on_supastorage,
file_options={"content-type": "audio/mpeg"})

  
`

* * *

## Download a file

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: none
    * `objects` table permissions: `select`
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

Download file

`  

_10

with open(destination, 'wb+') as f:

_10

res = supabase.storage.from_('bucket_name').download(source)

_10

f.write(res)

  
`

* * *

## List all files in a bucket

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: none
    * `objects` table permissions: `select`
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

List files in a bucket

`  

_10

res = supabase.storage.from_('bucket_name').list()

  
`

* * *

## Replace an existing file

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: none
    * `objects` table permissions: `update` and `select`
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

Update file

`  

_10

with open(filepath, 'rb') as f:

_10

supabase.storage.from_("bucket_name").update(file=f, path=path_on_supastorage,
file_options={"cache-control": "3600", "upsert": "true"})

  
`

* * *

## Move an existing file

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: none
    * `objects` table permissions: `update` and `select`
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

Move file

`  

_10

res = supabase.storage.from_('bucket_name').move('public/avatar1.png',
'private/avatar2.png')

  
`

* * *

## Delete files in a bucket

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: none
    * `objects` table permissions: `delete` and `select`
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

Delete file

`  

_10

res = supabase.storage.from_('bucket_name').remove('test.jpg')

  
`

* * *

## Create a signed URL

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: none
    * `objects` table permissions: `select`
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

Create Signed URL

`  

_10

res = supabase.storage.from_('bucket_name').create_signed_url(filepath,
expiry_duration)

  
`

* * *

## Retrieve public URL

  * The bucket needs to be set to public, either via [updateBucket()](/docs/reference/python/storage-updatebucket) or by going to Storage on [supabase.com/dashboard](https://supabase.com/dashboard), clicking the overflow menu on a bucket and choosing "Make public"
  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: none
    * `objects` table permissions: none
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

Returns the URL for an asset in a public bucket

`  

_10

res = supabase.storage.from_('bucket_name').get_public_url('test/avatar1.jpg')

  
`

  * Need some help?

[Contact support](https://supabase.com/support)

  * Latest product updates?

[See Changelog](https://supabase.com/changelog)

  * Something's not right?

[Check system status](https://status.supabase.com/)

* * *

[Â© Supabase
Inc](https://supabase.com/)â€”[Contributing](https://github.com/supabase/supabase/blob/master/apps/docs/DEVELOPERS.md)[Author
Styleguide](https://github.com/supabase/supabase/blob/master/apps/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md)[Open
Source](https://supabase.com/open-
source)[SupaSquad](https://supabase.com/supasquad)Privacy Settings

[GitHub](https://github.com/supabase/supabase)[Twitter](https://twitter.com/supabase)[Discord](https://discord.supabase.com/)

