[![Supabase wordmark](/docs/_next/image?url=%2Fdocs%2Fsupabase-
dark.svg&w=256&q=75&dpl=dpl_BJ9ShNdrRifaAcUSP15Lr1pJVtdF)![Supabase
wordmark](/docs/_next/image?url=%2Fdocs%2Fsupabase-
light.svg&w=256&q=75&dpl=dpl_BJ9ShNdrRifaAcUSP15Lr1pJVtdF)DOCS](/docs)

  * [Start](/docs/guides/getting-started)
  * Products
  * Build
  * Manage
  * Reference
  * Resources

[![Supabase wordmark](/docs/_next/image?url=%2Fdocs%2Fsupabase-
dark.svg&w=256&q=75&dpl=dpl_BJ9ShNdrRifaAcUSP15Lr1pJVtdF)![Supabase
wordmark](/docs/_next/image?url=%2Fdocs%2Fsupabase-
light.svg&w=256&q=75&dpl=dpl_BJ9ShNdrRifaAcUSP15Lr1pJVtdF)DOCS](/docs)

Search docs...

K

Getting Started

# Getting Started

* * *

[FeaturesA non-exhaustive list of features that Supabase provides for every
project.](/docs/guides/getting-started/features)[ArchitectureAn overview of
Supabase's architecture and product principles.](/docs/guides/getting-
started/architecture)[Local DevelopmentUse the Supabase CLI to develop locally
and collaborate between teams.](/docs/guides/cli/getting-started)

### Use cases#

[![AI, Vectors, and embeddings](/docs/img/icons/openai_logo-light.svg)AI,
Vectors, and embeddingsBuild AI-enabled applications using our Vector
toolkit.](/docs/guides/ai#examples)[![Subscription Payments
\(SaaS\)](/docs/img/icons/nextjs-icon.svg)Subscription Payments (SaaS)Clone,
deploy, and fully customize a SaaS subscription application with
Next.js.](https://github.com/vercel/nextjs-subscription-payments#nextjs-
subscription-payments-starter)[![Partner Gallery](/docs/img/icons/nextjs-
icon.svg)Partner GalleryPostgres full-text search, image storage, and
more.](https://github.com/supabase-community/partner-gallery-example#supabase-
partner-gallery-example)

### Framework quickstarts#

[![React](/docs/img/icons/react-icon.svg)ReactLearn how to create a Supabase
project, add some sample data to your database, and query the data from a
React app.](/docs/guides/getting-
started/quickstarts/reactjs)[![Next.js](/docs/img/icons/nextjs-icon-
light.svg)Next.jsLearn how to create a Supabase project, add some sample data
to your database, and query the data from a Next.js
app.](/docs/guides/getting-
started/quickstarts/nextjs)[![NuxtJS](/docs/img/icons/nuxt-
icon.svg)NuxtJSLearn how to create a Supabase project, add some sample data to
your database, and query the data from a NuxtJS app.](/docs/guides/getting-
started/quickstarts/nuxtjs)[![RedwoodJS](/docs/img/icons/redwood-
icon.svg)RedwoodJSLearn how to create a Supabase project, add some sample data
to your database using Prisma migration and seeds, and query the data from a
RedwoodJS app.](/docs/guides/getting-
started/quickstarts/redwoodjs)[![Flutter](/docs/img/icons/flutter-
icon.svg)FlutterLearn how to create a Supabase project, add some sample data
to your database, and query the data from a Flutter
app.](/docs/guides/getting-started/quickstarts/flutter)[![iOS
SwiftUI](/docs/img/icons/swift-icon.svg)iOS SwiftUILearn how to create a
Supabase project, add some sample data to your database, and query the data
from an iOS app.](/docs/guides/getting-started/quickstarts/ios-
swiftui)[![Android Kotlin](/docs/img/icons/kotlin-icon.svg)Android KotlinLearn
how to create a Supabase project, add some sample data to your database, and
query the data from an Android Kotlin app.](/docs/guides/getting-
started/quickstarts/kotlin)[![SvelteKit](/docs/img/icons/svelte-
icon.svg)SvelteKitLearn how to create a Supabase project, add some sample data
to your database, and query the data from a SvelteKit
app.](/docs/guides/getting-
started/quickstarts/sveltekit)[![SolidJS](/docs/img/icons/solidjs-
icon.svg)SolidJSLearn how to create a Supabase project, add some sample data
to your database, and query the data from a SolidJS
app.](/docs/guides/getting-
started/quickstarts/solidjs)[![Vue](/docs/img/icons/vuejs-icon.svg)VueLearn
how to create a Supabase project, add some sample data to your database, and
query the data from a Vue app.](/docs/guides/getting-
started/quickstarts/vue)[![refine](/docs/img/icons/refine-icon.svg)refineLearn
how to create a Supabase project, add some sample data to your database, and
query the data from a refine app.](/docs/guides/getting-
started/quickstarts/refine)

### Web app demos#

[![Next.js](/docs/img/icons/nextjs-icon-light.svg)Next.jsLearn how to build a
user management app with Next.js and Supabase Database, Auth, and Storage
functionality.](/docs/guides/getting-started/tutorials/with-
nextjs)[![React](/docs/img/icons/react-icon.svg)ReactLearn how to build a user
management app with React and Supabase Database, Auth, and Storage
functionality.](/docs/guides/getting-started/tutorials/with-react)[![Vue
3](/docs/img/icons/vuejs-icon.svg)Vue 3Learn how to build a user management
app with Vue 3 and Supabase Database, Auth, and Storage
functionality.](/docs/guides/getting-started/tutorials/with-vue-3)[![Nuxt
3](/docs/img/icons/nuxt-icon.svg)Nuxt 3Learn how to build a user management
app with Nuxt 3 and Supabase Database, Auth, and Storage
functionality.](/docs/guides/getting-started/tutorials/with-
nuxt-3)[![Angular](/docs/img/icons/angular-icon.svg)AngularLearn how to build
a user management app with Angular and Supabase Database, Auth, and Storage
functionality.](/docs/guides/getting-started/tutorials/with-
angular)[![RedwoodJS](/docs/img/icons/redwood-icon.svg)RedwoodJSLearn how to
build a user management app with RedwoodJS and Supabase Database, Auth, and
Storage functionality.](/docs/guides/getting-started/tutorials/with-
redwoodjs)[![Svelte](/docs/img/icons/svelte-icon.svg)SvelteLearn how to build
a user management app with Svelte and Supabase Database, Auth, and Storage
functionality.](/docs/guides/getting-started/tutorials/with-
svelte)[![SvelteKit](/docs/img/icons/svelte-icon.svg)SvelteKitLearn how to
build a user management app with SvelteKit and Supabase Database, Auth, and
Storage functionality.](/docs/guides/getting-started/tutorials/with-
sveltekit)[![refine](/docs/img/icons/refine-icon.svg)refineLearn how to build
a user management app with refine and Supabase Database, Auth, and Storage
functionality.](/docs/guides/getting-started/tutorials/with-refine)

### Mobile tutorials#

[![Flutter](/docs/img/icons/flutter-icon.svg)FlutterLearn how to build a user
management app with Flutter and Supabase Database, Auth, and Storage
functionality.](/docs/guides/getting-started/tutorials/with-flutter)[![Expo
React Native](/docs/img/icons/expo-icon-light.svg)Expo React NativeLearn how
to build a user management app with Expo React Native and Supabase Database,
Auth, and Storage functionality.](/docs/guides/getting-started/tutorials/with-
expo-react-native)[![Android Kotlin](/docs/img/icons/kotlin-icon.svg)Android
KotlinLearn how to build a product management app with Android and Supabase
Database, Auth, and Storage functionality.](/docs/guides/getting-
started/tutorials/with-kotlin)[![iOS Swift](/docs/img/icons/swift-icon.svg)iOS
SwiftLearn how to build a user management app with iOS and Supabase Database,
Auth, and Storage functionality.](/docs/guides/getting-started/tutorials/with-
swift)[![Ionic React](/docs/img/icons/ionic-icon.svg)Ionic ReactLearn how to
build a user management app with Ionic React and Supabase Database, Auth, and
Storage functionality.](/docs/guides/getting-started/tutorials/with-ionic-
react)[![Ionic Vue](/docs/img/icons/ionic-icon.svg)Ionic VueLearn how to build
a user management app with Ionic Vue and Supabase Database, Auth, and Storage
functionality.](/docs/guides/getting-started/tutorials/with-ionic-vue)[![Ionic
Angular](/docs/img/icons/ionic-icon.svg)Ionic AngularLearn how to build a user
management app with Ionic Angular and Supabase Database, Auth, and Storage
functionality.](/docs/guides/getting-started/tutorials/with-ionic-angular)

[Edit this page on GitHub
](https://github.com/supabase/supabase/blob/master/apps/docs/content/guides/getting-
started.mdx)

  * Need some help?

[Contact support](https://supabase.com/support)

  * Latest product updates?

[See Changelog](https://supabase.com/changelog)

  * Something's not right?

[Check system status](https://status.supabase.com/)

* * *

[© Supabase
Inc](https://supabase.com/)—[Contributing](https://github.com/supabase/supabase/blob/master/apps/docs/DEVELOPERS.md)[Author
Styleguide](https://github.com/supabase/supabase/blob/master/apps/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md)[Open
Source](https://supabase.com/open-
source)[SupaSquad](https://supabase.com/supasquad)Privacy Settings

[GitHub](https://github.com/supabase/supabase)[Twitter](https://twitter.com/supabase)[Discord](https://discord.supabase.com/)

