[![Supabase wordmark](/docs/_next/image?url=%2Fdocs%2Fsupabase-
dark.svg&w=256&q=75&dpl=dpl_BJ9ShNdrRifaAcUSP15Lr1pJVtdF)![Supabase
wordmark](/docs/_next/image?url=%2Fdocs%2Fsupabase-
light.svg&w=256&q=75&dpl=dpl_BJ9ShNdrRifaAcUSP15Lr1pJVtdF)DOCS](/docs)

  * [Start](/docs/guides/getting-started)
  * Products
  * Build
  * Manage
  * Reference
  * Resources

[![Supabase wordmark](/docs/_next/image?url=%2Fdocs%2Fsupabase-
dark.svg&w=256&q=75&dpl=dpl_BJ9ShNdrRifaAcUSP15Lr1pJVtdF)![Supabase
wordmark](/docs/_next/image?url=%2Fdocs%2Fsupabase-
light.svg&w=256&q=75&dpl=dpl_BJ9ShNdrRifaAcUSP15Lr1pJVtdF)DOCS](/docs)

Search docs...

K

Javascript Reference v2.0

# JavaScript Client Library

@supabase/supabase-js[View on GitHub](https://github.com/supabase/supabase-js)

This reference documents every object and method available in Supabase's
isomorphic JavaScript library, `supabase-js`. You can use `supabase-js` to
interact with your Postgres database, listen to database changes, invoke Deno
Edge Functions, build login and user management functionality, and manage
large files.

* * *

## Installing

### Install as package#

You can install @supabase/supabase-js via the terminal.

npmYarnpnpm

Terminal

`  

_10

npm install @supabase/supabase-js

  
`

### Install via CDN#

You can install @supabase/supabase-js via CDN links.

`  

_10

<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@supabase/supabase-js@2"></script>

_10

//or

_10

<script src="https://unpkg.com/@supabase/supabase-js@2"></script>

  
`

### Use at runtime in Deno#

You can use supabase-js in the Deno runtime via
[JSR](https://jsr.io/@supabase/supabase-js):

`  

_10

import { createClient } from 'jsr:@supabase/supabase-js@2'

  
`

* * *

## Initializing

Create a new client for use in the browser.

You can initialize a new Supabase client using the `createClient()` method.

The Supabase client is your entrypoint to the rest of the Supabase
functionality and is the easiest way to interact with everything we offer
within the Supabase ecosystem.

### Parameters

  * supabaseUrlRequiredstring

The unique Supabase URL which is supplied when you create a new project in
your project dashboard.

  * supabaseKeyRequiredstring

The unique Supabase Key which is supplied when you create a new project in
your project dashboard.

  * optionsOptionalSupabaseClientOptions

Details

Creating a clientWith a custom domainWith additional parametersWith custom
schemasCustom fetch implementationReact Native options with AsyncStorageReact
Native options with Expo SecureStore

`  

_10

import { createClient } from '@supabase/supabase-js'

_10

_10

// Create a single supabase client for interacting with your database

_10

const supabase = createClient('https://xyzcompany.supabase.co', 'public-anon-
key')

  
`

* * *

## TypeScript support

`supabase-js` has TypeScript support for type inference, autocompletion, type-
safe queries, and more.

With TypeScript, `supabase-js` detects things like `not null` constraints and [generated columns](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/ddl-generated-columns.html). Nullable columns are typed as `T | null` when you select the column. Generated columns will show a type error when you insert to it.

`supabase-js` also detects relationships between tables. A referenced table with one-to-many relationship is typed as `T[]`. Likewise, a referenced table with many-to-one relationship is typed as `T | null`.

## Generating TypeScript Types#

You can use the Supabase CLI to [generate the
types](/docs/reference/cli/supabase-gen-types). You can also generate the
types [from the
dashboard](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/api?page=tables-intro).

Terminal

`  

_10

supabase gen types typescript --project-id abcdefghijklmnopqrst >
database.types.ts

  
`

These types are generated from your database schema. Given a table
`public.movies`, the generated types will look like:

`  

_10

create table public.movies (

_10

id bigint generated always as identity primary key,

_10

name text not null,

_10

data jsonb null

_10

);

  
`

./database.types.ts

`  

_25

export type Json = string | number | boolean | null | { [key: string]: Json | undefined } | Json[]

_25

_25

export interface Database {

_25

public: {

_25

Tables: {

_25

movies: {

_25

Row: { // the data expected from .select()

_25

id: number

_25

name: string

_25

data: Json | null

_25

}

_25

Insert: { // the data to be passed to .insert()

_25

id?: never // generated columns must not be supplied

_25

name: string // `not null` columns with no default must be supplied

_25

data?: Json | null // nullable columns can be omitted

_25

}

_25

Update: { // the data to be passed to .update()

_25

id?: never

_25

name?: string // `not null` columns are optional on .update()

_25

data?: Json | null

_25

}

_25

}

_25

}

_25

}

_25

}

  
`

## Using TypeScript type definitions#

You can supply the type definitions to `supabase-js` like so:

./index.tsx

`  

_10

import { createClient } from '@supabase/supabase-js'

_10

import { Database } from './database.types'

_10

_10

const supabase = createClient<Database>(

_10

process.env.SUPABASE_URL,

_10

process.env.SUPABASE_ANON_KEY

_10

)

  
`

## Helper types for Tables and Joins#

You can use the following helper types to make the generated TypeScript types
easier to use.

Sometimes the generated types are not what you expect. For example, a view's
column may show up as nullable when you expect it to be `not null`. Using
[type-fest](https://github.com/sindresorhus/type-fest), you can override the
types like so:

./database-generated.types.ts

`  

_10

export type Json = // ...

_10

_10

export interface Database {

_10

// ...

_10

}

  
`

./database.types.ts

`  

_20

import { MergeDeep } from 'type-fest'

_20

import { Database as DatabaseGenerated } from './database-generated.types'

_20

export { Json } from './database-generated.types'

_20

_20

// Override the type for a specific column in a view:

_20

export type Database = MergeDeep<

_20

DatabaseGenerated,

_20

{

_20

public: {

_20

Views: {

_20

movies_view: {

_20

Row: {

_20

// id is a primary key in public.movies, so it must be `not null`

_20

id: number

_20

}

_20

}

_20

}

_20

}

_20

}

_20

>

  
`

You can also override the type of an individual successful response if needed:

`  

_10

const { data } = await supabase.from('countries').select().returns<MyType>()

  
`

The generated types provide shorthands for accessing tables and enums.

./index.ts

`  

_10

import { Database, Tables, Enums } from "./database.types.ts";

_10

_10

// Before üòï

_10

let movie: Database['public']['Tables']['movies']['Row'] = // ...

_10

_10

// After üòç

_10

let movie: Tables<'movies'>

  
`

### Response types for complex queries#

`supabase-js` always returns a `data` object (for success), and an `error`
object (for unsuccessful requests).

These helper types provide the result types from any query, including nested
types for database joins.

Given the following schema with a relation between cities and countries, we
can get the nested `CountriesWithCities` type:

`  

_10

create table countries (

_10

"id" serial primary key,

_10

"name" text

_10

);

_10

_10

create table cities (

_10

"id" serial primary key,

_10

"name" text,

_10

"country_id" int references "countries"

_10

);

  
`

`  

_17

import { QueryResult, QueryData, QueryError } from '@supabase/supabase-js'

_17

_17

const countriesWithCitiesQuery = supabase

_17

.from("countries")

_17

.select(`

_17

id,

_17

name,

_17

cities (

_17

id,

_17

name

_17

)

_17

`);

_17

type CountriesWithCities = QueryData<typeof countriesWithCitiesQuery>;

_17

_17

const { data, error } = await countriesWithCitiesQuery;

_17

if (error) throw error;

_17

const countriesWithCities: CountriesWithCities = data;

  
`

* * *

## Fetch data

Perform a SELECT query on the table or view.

  * By default, Supabase projects return a maximum of 1,000 rows. This setting can be changed in your project's [API settings](/dashboard/project/_/settings/api). It's recommended that you keep it low to limit the payload size of accidental or malicious requests. You can use `range()` queries to paginate through your data.
  * `select()` can be combined with [Filters](/docs/reference/javascript/using-filters)
  * `select()` can be combined with [Modifiers](/docs/reference/javascript/using-modifiers)
  * `apikey` is a reserved keyword if you're using the [Supabase Platform](/docs/guides/platform) and [should be avoided as a column name](https://github.com/supabase/supabase/issues/5465).

### Parameters

  * columnsOptionalQuery

The columns to retrieve, separated by commas. Columns can be renamed when
returned with `customName:columnName`

  * optionsRequiredobject

Named parameters

Details

Getting your dataSelecting specific columnsQuery referenced tablesQuery
referenced tables through a join tableQuery the same referenced table multiple
timesQuery nested foreign tables through a join tableFiltering through
referenced tablesQuerying referenced table with countQuerying with count
optionQuerying JSON dataQuerying referenced table with inner joinSwitching
schemas per query

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select()

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Insert data

Perform an INSERT into the table or view.

### Parameters

  * valuesRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The values to insert. Pass an object to insert a single row or an array to
insert multiple rows.

Details

  * optionsOptionalobject

Named parameters

Details

Create a recordCreate a record and return itBulk create

`  

_10

const { error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.insert({ id: 1, name: 'Denmark' })

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Update data

Perform an UPDATE on the table or view.

  * `update()` should always be combined with [Filters](/docs/reference/javascript/using-filters) to target the item(s) you wish to update.

### Parameters

  * valuesRequiredRow

The values to update with

  * optionsRequiredobject

Named parameters

Details

Updating your dataUpdate a record and return itUpdating JSON data

`  

_10

const { error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.update({ name: 'Australia' })

_10

.eq('id', 1)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Upsert data

Perform an UPSERT on the table or view. Depending on the column(s) passed to
`onConflict`, `.upsert()` allows you to perform the equivalent of `.insert()`
if a row with the corresponding `onConflict` columns doesn't exist, or if it
does exist, perform an alternative action depending on `ignoreDuplicates`.

  * Primary keys must be included in `values` to use upsert.

### Parameters

  * valuesRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The values to upsert with. Pass an object to upsert a single row or an array
to upsert multiple rows.

Details

  * optionsOptionalobject

Named parameters

Details

Upsert your dataBulk Upsert your dataUpserting into tables with constraints

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.upsert({ id: 1, name: 'Albania' })

_10

.select()

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Delete data

Perform a DELETE on the table or view.

  * `delete()` should always be combined with [filters](/docs/reference/javascript/using-filters) to target the item(s) you wish to delete.
  * If you use `delete()` with filters and you have [RLS](/docs/learn/auth-deep-dive/auth-row-level-security) enabled, only rows visible through `SELECT` policies are deleted. Note that by default no rows are visible, so you need at least one `SELECT`/`ALL` policy that makes the rows visible.
  * When using `delete().in()`, specify an array of values to target multiple rows with a single query. This is particularly useful for batch deleting entries that share common criteria, such as deleting users by their IDs. Ensure that the array you provide accurately represents all records you intend to delete to avoid unintended data removal.

### Parameters

  * optionsRequiredobject

Named parameters

Details

Delete a single recordDelete a record and return itDelete multiple records

`  

_10

const response = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.delete()

_10

.eq('id', 1)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Call a Postgres function

Perform a function call.

You can call Postgres functions as _Remote Procedure Calls_ , logic in your
database that you can execute from anywhere. Functions are useful when the
logic rarely changes‚Äîlike for password resets and updates.

`  

_10

create or replace function hello_world() returns text as $$

_10

select 'Hello world';

_10

$$ language sql;

  
`

To call Postgres functions on [Read Replicas](/docs/guides/platform/read-
replicas), use the `get: true` option.

### Parameters

  * fnRequiredFnName

The function name to call

  * argsRequiredFn['Args']

The arguments to pass to the function call

  * optionsRequiredobject

Named parameters

Details

Call a Postgres function without argumentsCall a Postgres function with
argumentsBulk processingCall a Postgres function with filtersCall a read-only
Postgres function

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.rpc('hello_world')

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Using filters

Filters allow you to only return rows that match certain conditions.

Filters can be used on `select()`, `update()`, `upsert()`, and `delete()`
queries.

If a Postgres function returns a table response, you can also apply filters.

Applying FiltersChainingConditional ChainingFilter by values within a JSON
columnFilter referenced tables

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('cities')

_10

.select('name, country_id')

_10

.eq('name', 'The Shire') // Correct

_10

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('cities')

_10

.eq('name', 'The Shire') // Incorrect

_10

.select('name, country_id')

  
`

Notes

* * *

## Column is equal to a value

Match only rows where `column` is equal to `value`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The column to filter on

Details

  * valueRequiredNonNullable

The value to filter with

With `select()`

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select()

_10

.eq('name', 'Albania')

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Column is not equal to a value

Match only rows where `column` is not equal to `value`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The column to filter on

Details

  * valueRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The value to filter with

Details

With `select()`

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select()

_10

.neq('name', 'Albania')

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Column is greater than a value

Match only rows where `column` is greater than `value`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The column to filter on

Details

  * valueRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The value to filter with

Details

With `select()`

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select()

_10

.gt('id', 2)

  
`

Data source

Response

Notes

* * *

## Column is greater than or equal to a value

Match only rows where `column` is greater than or equal to `value`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The column to filter on

Details

  * valueRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The value to filter with

Details

With `select()`

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select()

_10

.gte('id', 2)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Column is less than a value

Match only rows where `column` is less than `value`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The column to filter on

Details

  * valueRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The value to filter with

Details

With `select()`

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select()

_10

.lt('id', 2)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Column is less than or equal to a value

Match only rows where `column` is less than or equal to `value`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The column to filter on

Details

  * valueRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The value to filter with

Details

With `select()`

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select()

_10

.lte('id', 2)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Column matches a pattern

Match only rows where `column` matches `pattern` case-sensitively.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The column to filter on

Details

  * patternRequiredstring

The pattern to match with

With `select()`

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select()

_10

.like('name', '%Alba%')

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Column matches a case-insensitive pattern

Match only rows where `column` matches `pattern` case-insensitively.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The column to filter on

Details

  * patternRequiredstring

The pattern to match with

With `select()`

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select()

_10

.ilike('name', '%alba%')

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Column is a value

Match only rows where `column` IS `value`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The column to filter on

Details

  * valueRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The value to filter with

Details

Checking for nullness, true or false

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select()

_10

.is('name', null)

  
`

Data source

Response

Notes

* * *

## Column is in an array

Match only rows where `column` is included in the `values` array.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The column to filter on

Details

  * valuesRequiredArray<Row['ColumnName']>

The values array to filter with

With `select()`

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select()

_10

.in('name', ['Albania', 'Algeria'])

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Column contains every element in a value

Only relevant for jsonb, array, and range columns. Match only rows where
`column` contains every element appearing in `value`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The jsonb, array, or range column to filter on

Details

  * valueRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The jsonb, array, or range value to filter with

Details

On array columnsOn range columnsOn `jsonb` columns

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('issues')

_10

.select()

_10

.contains('tags', ['is:open', 'priority:low'])

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Contained by value

Only relevant for jsonb, array, and range columns. Match only rows where every
element appearing in `column` is contained by `value`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The jsonb, array, or range column to filter on

Details

  * valueRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The jsonb, array, or range value to filter with

Details

On array columnsOn range columnsOn `jsonb` columns

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('classes')

_10

.select('name')

_10

.containedBy('days', ['monday', 'tuesday', 'wednesday', 'friday'])

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Greater than a range

Only relevant for range columns. Match only rows where every element in
`column` is greater than any element in `range`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The range column to filter on

Details

  * rangeRequiredstring

The range to filter with

With `select()`

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('reservations')

_10

.select()

_10

.rangeGt('during', '[2000-01-02 08:00, 2000-01-02 09:00)')

  
`

Data source

Response

Notes

* * *

## Greater than or equal to a range

Only relevant for range columns. Match only rows where every element in
`column` is either contained in `range` or greater than any element in
`range`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The range column to filter on

Details

  * rangeRequiredstring

The range to filter with

With `select()`

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('reservations')

_10

.select()

_10

.rangeGte('during', '[2000-01-02 08:30, 2000-01-02 09:30)')

  
`

Data source

Response

Notes

* * *

## Less than a range

Only relevant for range columns. Match only rows where every element in
`column` is less than any element in `range`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The range column to filter on

Details

  * rangeRequiredstring

The range to filter with

With `select()`

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('reservations')

_10

.select()

_10

.rangeLt('during', '[2000-01-01 15:00, 2000-01-01 16:00)')

  
`

Data source

Response

Notes

* * *

## Less than or equal to a range

Only relevant for range columns. Match only rows where every element in
`column` is either contained in `range` or less than any element in `range`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The range column to filter on

Details

  * rangeRequiredstring

The range to filter with

With `select()`

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('reservations')

_10

.select()

_10

.rangeLte('during', '[2000-01-01 14:00, 2000-01-01 16:00)')

  
`

Data source

Response

Notes

* * *

## Mutually exclusive to a range

Only relevant for range columns. Match only rows where `column` is mutually
exclusive to `range` and there can be no element between the two ranges.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The range column to filter on

Details

  * rangeRequiredstring

The range to filter with

With `select()`

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('reservations')

_10

.select()

_10

.rangeAdjacent('during', '[2000-01-01 12:00, 2000-01-01 13:00)')

  
`

Data source

Response

Notes

* * *

## With a common element

Only relevant for array and range columns. Match only rows where `column` and
`value` have an element in common.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The array or range column to filter on

Details

  * valueRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The array or range value to filter with

Details

On array columnsOn range columns

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('issues')

_10

.select('title')

_10

.overlaps('tags', ['is:closed', 'severity:high'])

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Match a string

Only relevant for text and tsvector columns. Match only rows where `column`
matches the query string in `query`.

  * For more information, see [Postgres full text search](/docs/guides/database/full-text-search).

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The text or tsvector column to filter on

Details

  * queryRequiredstring

The query text to match with

  * optionsOptionalobject

Named parameters

Details

Text searchBasic normalizationFull normalizationWebsearch

`  

_10

const result = await supabase

_10

.from("texts")

_10

.select("content")

_10

.textSearch("content", `'eggs' & 'ham'`, {

_10

config: "english",

_10

});

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Match an associated value

Match only rows where each column in `query` keys is equal to its associated
value. Shorthand for multiple `.eq()`s.

### Parameters

  * queryRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The object to filter with, with column names as keys mapped to their filter
values

Details

With `select()`

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select('name')

_10

.match({ id: 2, name: 'Albania' })

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Don't match the filter

Match only rows which doesn't satisfy the filter.

not() expects you to use the raw PostgREST syntax for the filter values.

`  

_10

.not('id', 'in', '(5,6,7)') // Use `()` for `in` filter

_10

.not('arraycol', 'cs', '{"a","b"}') // Use `cs` for `contains()`, `{}` for
array values

  
`

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The column to filter on

Details

  * operatorRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The operator to be negated to filter with, following PostgREST syntax

Details

  * valueRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The value to filter with, following PostgREST syntax

Details

With `select()`

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select()

_10

.not('name', 'is', null)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Match at least one filter

Match only rows which satisfy at least one of the filters.

or() expects you to use the raw PostgREST syntax for the filter names and
values.

`  

_10

.or('id.in.(5,6,7), arraycol.cs.{"a","b"}') // Use `()` for `in` filter, `{}`
for array values and `cs` for `contains()`.

_10

.or('id.in.(5,6,7), arraycol.cd.{"a","b"}') // Use `cd` for `containedBy()`

  
`

### Parameters

  * filtersRequiredstring

The filters to use, following PostgREST syntax

  * optionsRequiredobject

Named parameters

Details

With `select()`Use `or` with `and`Use `or` on referenced tables

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select('name')

_10

.or('id.eq.2,name.eq.Algeria')

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Match the filter

Match only rows which satisfy the filter. This is an escape hatch - you should
use the specific filter methods wherever possible.

filter() expects you to use the raw PostgREST syntax for the filter values.

`  

_10

.filter('id', 'in', '(5,6,7)') // Use `()` for `in` filter

_10

.filter('arraycol', 'cs', '{"a","b"}') // Use `cs` for `contains()`, `{}` for
array values

  
`

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The column to filter on

Details

  * operatorRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The operator to filter with, following PostgREST syntax

Details

  * valueRequiredunknown

The value to filter with, following PostgREST syntax

With `select()`On a referenced table

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select()

_10

.filter('name', 'in', '("Algeria","Japan")')

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Using modifiers

Filters work on the row level‚Äîthey allow you to return rows that only match
certain conditions without changing the shape of the rows. Modifiers are
everything that don't fit that definition‚Äîallowing you to change the format of
the response (e.g., returning a CSV string).

Modifiers must be specified after filters. Some modifiers only apply for
queries that return rows (e.g., `select()` or `rpc()` on a function that
returns a table response).

* * *

## Return data after inserting

Perform a SELECT on the query result.

### Parameters

  * columnsOptionalQuery

The columns to retrieve, separated by commas

With `upsert()`

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.upsert({ id: 1, name: 'Algeria' })

_10

.select()

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Order the results

Order the query result by `column`.

### Parameters

  * columnRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The column to order by

Details

  * optionsOptionalobject

Named parameters

Details

With `select()`On a referenced table

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select('id', 'name')

_10

.order('id', { ascending: false })

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Limit the number of rows returned

Limit the query result by `count`.

### Parameters

  * countRequirednumber

The maximum number of rows to return

  * optionsRequiredobject

Named parameters

Details

With `select()`On a referenced table

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select('name')

_10

.limit(1)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Limit the query to a range

Limit the query result by starting at an offset (`from`) and ending at the
offset (`from + to`). Only records within this range are returned. This
respects the query order and if there is no order clause the range could
behave unexpectedly. The `from` and `to` values are 0-based and inclusive:
`range(1, 3)` will include the second, third and fourth rows of the query.

### Parameters

  * fromRequirednumber

The starting index from which to limit the result

  * toRequirednumber

The last index to which to limit the result

  * optionsRequiredobject

Named parameters

Details

With `select()`

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select('name')

_10

.range(0, 1)

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Set an abort signal

Set the AbortSignal for the fetch request.

You can use this to set a timeout for the request.

### Parameters

  * signalRequiredAbortSignal

The AbortSignal to use for the fetch request

Aborting requests in-flightSet a timeout

`  

_10

const ac = new AbortController()

_10

ac.abort()

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('very_big_table')

_10

.select()

_10

.abortSignal(ac.signal)

  
`

Response

Notes

* * *

## Retrieve one row of data

Return `data` as a single object instead of an array of objects.

With `select()`

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select('name')

_10

.limit(1)

_10

.single()

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Retrieve zero or one row of data

Return `data` as a single object instead of an array of objects.

### Return Type

Union: expand to see options

Details

With `select()`

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select()

_10

.eq('name', 'Singapore')

_10

.maybeSingle()

  
`

Data source

Response

* * *

## Retrieve as a CSV

Return `data` as a string in CSV format.

### Return Type

string

Return data as CSV

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select()

_10

.csv()

  
`

Data source

Response

Notes

* * *

## Override type of successful response

Override the type of the returned `data`.

Override type of successful response

`  

_10

const { data } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select()

_10

.returns<MyType>()

  
`

Response

* * *

## Using explain

Return `data` as the EXPLAIN plan for the query.

For debugging slow queries, you can get the [Postgres `EXPLAIN` execution
plan](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-explain.html) of a query
using the `explain()` method. This works on any query, even for `rpc()` or
writes.

Explain is not enabled by default as it can reveal sensitive information about
your database. It's best to only enable this for testing environments but if
you wish to enable it for production you can provide additional protection by
using a `pre-request` function.

Follow the [Performance Debugging Guide](/docs/guides/database/debugging-
performance) to enable the functionality on your project.

### Parameters

  * optionsRequiredobject

Named parameters

Details

### Return Type

Union: expand to see options

Details

Get the execution planGet the execution plan with analyze and verbose

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('countries')

_10

.select()

_10

.explain()

  
`

Data source

Response

Notes

* * *

## Overview

  * The auth methods can be accessed via the `supabase.auth` namespace.

  * By default, the supabase client sets `persistSession` to true and attempts to store the session in local storage. When using the supabase client in an environment that doesn't support local storage, you might notice the following warning message being logged:

> No storage option exists to persist the session, which may result in
> unexpected behavior when using auth. If you want to set `persistSession` to
> true, please provide a storage option or you may set `persistSession` to
> false to disable this warning.

This warning message can be safely ignored if you're not using auth on the
server-side. If you are using auth and you want to set `persistSession` to
true, you will need to provide a custom storage implementation that follows
[this interface](https://github.com/supabase/gotrue-
js/blob/master/src/lib/types.ts#L1027).

  * Any email links and one-time passwords (OTPs) sent have a default expiry of 24 hours. We have the following [rate limits](/docs/guides/platform/going-into-prod#auth-rate-limits) in place to guard against brute force attacks.

  * The expiry of an access token can be set in the "JWT expiry limit" field in [your project's auth settings](/dashboard/project/_/settings/auth). A refresh token never expires and can only be used once.

Create auth clientCreate auth client (server-side)

`  

_10

import { createClient } from '@supabase/supabase-js'

_10

_10

const supabase = createClient(supabase_url, anon_key)

  
`

* * *

## Create a new user

Creates a new user.

  * By default, the user needs to verify their email address before logging in. To turn this off, disable **Confirm email** in [your project](/dashboard/project/_/auth/providers).
  * **Confirm email** determines if users need to confirm their email address after signing up.
    * If **Confirm email** is enabled, a `user` is returned but `session` is null.
    * If **Confirm email** is disabled, both a `user` and a `session` are returned.
  * When the user confirms their email address, they are redirected to the [`SITE_URL`](/docs/guides/auth/redirect-urls) by default. You can modify your `SITE_URL` or add additional redirect URLs in [your project](/dashboard/project/_/auth/url-configuration).
  * If signUp() is called for an existing confirmed user:
    * When both **Confirm email** and **Confirm phone** (even when phone provider is disabled) are enabled in [your project](/dashboard/project/_/auth/providers), an obfuscated/fake user object is returned.
    * When either **Confirm email** or **Confirm phone** (even when phone provider is disabled) is disabled, the error message, `User already registered` is returned.
  * To fetch the currently logged-in user, refer to [`getUser()`](/docs/reference/javascript/auth-getuser).

### Parameters

  * credentialsRequiredUnion: expand to see options

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Sign up with an email and passwordSign up with a phone number and password
(SMS)Sign up with a phone number and password (whatsapp)Sign up with
additional user metadataSign up with a redirect URL

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.signUp({

_10

email: '[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)',

_10

password: 'example-password',

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Listen to auth events

Receive a notification every time an auth event happens.

  * Subscribes to important events occurring on the user's session.
  * Use on the frontend/client. It is less useful on the server.
  * Events are emitted across tabs to keep your application's UI up-to-date. Some events can fire very frequently, based on the number of tabs open. Use a quick and efficient callback function, and defer or debounce as many operations as you can to be performed outside of the callback.
  * **Important:** A callback can be an `async` function and it runs synchronously during the processing of the changes causing the event. You can easily create a dead-lock by using `await` on a call to another method of the Supabase library.
    * Avoid using `async` functions as callbacks.
    * Limit the number of `await` calls in `async` callbacks.
    * Do not use other Supabase functions in the callback function. If you must, dispatch the functions once the callback has finished executing. Use this as a quick way to achieve this:

`  

_10

supabase.auth.onAuthStateChange((event, session) => {

_10

setTimeout(async () => {

_10

// await on other Supabase function here

_10

// this runs right after the callback has finished

_10

}, 0)

_10

})

  
`

  * Emitted events:
    * `INITIAL_SESSION`
      * Emitted right after the Supabase client is constructed and the initial session from storage is loaded.
    * `SIGNED_IN`
      * Emitted each time a user session is confirmed or re-established, including on user sign in and when refocusing a tab.
      * Avoid making assumptions as to when this event is fired, this may occur even when the user is already signed in. Instead, check the user object attached to the event to see if a new user has signed in and update your application's UI.
      * This event can fire very frequently depending on the number of tabs open in your application.
    * `SIGNED_OUT`
      * Emitted when the user signs out. This can be after:
        * A call to `supabase.auth.signOut()`.
        * After the user's session has expired for any reason:
          * User has signed out on another device.
          * The session has reached its timebox limit or inactivity timeout.
          * User has signed in on another device with single session per user enabled.
          * Check the [User Sessions](/docs/guides/auth/sessions) docs for more information.
      * Use this to clean up any local storage your application has associated with the user.
    * `TOKEN_REFRESHED`
      * Emitted each time a new access and refresh token are fetched for the signed in user.
      * It's best practice and highly recommended to extract the access token (JWT) and store it in memory for further use in your application.
        * Avoid frequent calls to `supabase.auth.getSession()` for the same purpose.
      * There is a background process that keeps track of when the session should be refreshed so you will always receive valid tokens by listening to this event.
      * The frequency of this event is related to the JWT expiry limit configured on your project.
    * `USER_UPDATED`
      * Emitted each time the `supabase.auth.updateUser()` method finishes successfully. Listen to it to update your application's UI based on new profile information.
    * `PASSWORD_RECOVERY`
      * Emitted instead of the `SIGNED_IN` event when the user lands on a page that includes a password recovery link in the URL.
      * Use it to show a UI to the user where they can [reset their password](/docs/guides/auth/passwords#resetting-a-users-password-forgot-password).

### Parameters

  * callbackRequiredfunction

A callback function to be invoked when an auth event happens.

Details

### Return Type

object

Details

Listen to auth changesListen to sign outStore OAuth provider tokens on sign
inUse React Context for the User's sessionListen to password recovery
eventsListen to sign inListen to token refreshListen to user updates

`  

_20

const { data } = supabase.auth.onAuthStateChange((event, session) => {

_20

console.log(event, session)

_20

_20

if (event === 'INITIAL_SESSION') {

_20

// handle initial session

_20

} else if (event === 'SIGNED_IN') {

_20

// handle sign in event

_20

} else if (event === 'SIGNED_OUT') {

_20

// handle sign out event

_20

} else if (event === 'PASSWORD_RECOVERY') {

_20

// handle password recovery event

_20

} else if (event === 'TOKEN_REFRESHED') {

_20

// handle token refreshed event

_20

} else if (event === 'USER_UPDATED') {

_20

// handle user updated event

_20

}

_20

})

_20

_20

// call unsubscribe to remove the callback

_20

data.subscription.unsubscribe()

  
`

* * *

## Create an anonymous user

Creates a new anonymous user.

  * Returns an anonymous user
  * It is recommended to set up captcha for anonymous sign-ins to prevent abuse. You can pass in the captcha token in the `options` param.

### Parameters

  * credentialsOptionalSignInAnonymouslyCredentials

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Create an anonymous userCreate an anonymous user with custom user metadata

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.signInAnonymously({

_10

options: {

_10

captchaToken

_10

}

_10

});

  
`

Response

* * *

## Sign in a user

Log in an existing user with an email and password or phone and password.

  * Requires either an email and password or a phone number and password.

### Parameters

  * credentialsRequiredUnion: expand to see options

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Sign in with email and passwordSign in with phone and password

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.signInWithPassword({

_10

email: '[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)',

_10

password: 'example-password',

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Sign in with ID Token

Allows signing in with an OIDC ID token. The authentication provider used
should be enabled and configured.

### Parameters

  * credentialsRequiredSignInWithIdTokenCredentials

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Sign In using ID Token

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.signInWithIdToken({

_10

provider: 'google',

_10

token: 'your-id-token'

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Sign in a user through OTP

Log in a user using magiclink or a one-time password (OTP).

  * Requires either an email or phone number.
  * This method is used for passwordless sign-ins where a OTP is sent to the user's email or phone number.
  * If the user doesn't exist, `signInWithOtp()` will signup the user instead. To restrict this behavior, you can set `shouldCreateUser` in `SignInWithPasswordlessCredentials.options` to `false`.
  * If you're using an email, you can configure whether you want the user to receive a magiclink or a OTP.
  * If you're using phone, you can configure whether you want the user to receive a OTP.
  * The magic link's destination URL is determined by the [`SITE_URL`](/docs/guides/auth/redirect-urls).
  * See [redirect URLs and wildcards](/docs/guides/auth#redirect-urls-and-wildcards) to add additional redirect URLs to your project.
  * Magic links and OTPs share the same implementation. To send users a one-time code instead of a magic link, [modify the magic link email template](/dashboard/project/_/auth/templates) to include `{{ .Token }}` instead of `{{ .ConfirmationURL }}`.
  * See our [Twilio Phone Auth Guide](/docs/guides/auth/phone-login?showSmsProvider=Twilio) for details about configuring WhatsApp sign in.

### Parameters

  * credentialsRequiredUnion: expand to see options

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Sign in with emailSign in with SMS OTPSign in with WhatsApp OTP

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.signInWithOtp({

_10

email: '[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)',

_10

options: {

_10

emailRedirectTo: 'https://example.com/welcome'

_10

}

_10

})

  
`

Response

Notes

* * *

## Sign in a user through OAuth

Log in an existing user via a third-party provider. This method supports the
PKCE flow.

  * This method is used for signing in using a third-party provider.
  * Supabase supports many different [third-party providers](/docs/guides/auth#configure-third-party-providers).

### Parameters

  * credentialsRequiredSignInWithOAuthCredentials

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Sign in using a third-party providerSign in using a third-party provider with
redirectSign in with scopes and access provider tokens

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.signInWithOAuth({

_10

provider: 'github'

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Sign in a user through SSO

Attempts a single-sign on using an enterprise Identity Provider. A successful
SSO attempt will redirect the current page to the identity provider
authorization page. The redirect URL is implementation and SSO protocol
specific.

  * Before you can call this method you need to [establish a connection](/docs/guides/auth/sso/auth-sso-saml#managing-saml-20-connections) to an identity provider. Use the [CLI commands](/docs/reference/cli/supabase-sso) to do this.
  * If you've associated an email domain to the identity provider, you can use the `domain` property to start a sign-in flow.
  * In case you need to use a different way to start the authentication flow with an identity provider, you can use the `providerId` property. For example:
    * Mapping specific user email addresses with an identity provider.
    * Using different hints to identity the identity provider to be used by the user, like a company-specific page, IP address or other tracking information.

### Parameters

  * paramsRequiredUnion: expand to see options

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Sign in with email domainSign in with provider UUID

`  

_11

// You can extract the user's email domain and use it to trigger the

_11

// authentication flow with the correct identity provider.

_11

_11

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.signInWithSSO({

_11

domain: 'company.com'

_11

})

_11

_11

if (data?.url) {

_11

// redirect the user to the identity provider's authentication flow

_11

window.location.href = data.url

_11

}

  
`

* * *

## Sign out a user

Inside a browser context, `signOut()` will remove the logged in user from the
browser session and log them out - removing all items from localstorage and
then trigger a `"SIGNED_OUT"` event.

  * In order to use the `signOut()` method, the user needs to be signed in first.
  * By default, `signOut()` uses the global scope, which signs out all other sessions that the user is logged into as well.
  * Since Supabase Auth uses JWTs for authentication, the access token JWT will be valid until it's expired. When the user signs out, Supabase revokes the refresh token and deletes the JWT from the client-side. This does not revoke the JWT and it will still be valid until it expires.

### Parameters

  * optionsRequiredSignOut

Details

### Return Type

Promise<object>

Details

Sign out

`  

_10

const { error } = await supabase.auth.signOut()

  
`

* * *

## Send a password reset request

Sends a password reset request to an email address. This method supports the
PKCE flow.

  * The password reset flow consist of 2 broad steps: (i) Allow the user to login via the password reset link; (ii) Update the user's password.
  * The `resetPasswordForEmail()` only sends a password reset link to the user's email. To update the user's password, see [`updateUser()`](/docs/reference/javascript/auth-updateuser).
  * A `SIGNED_IN` and `PASSWORD_RECOVERY` event will be emitted when the password recovery link is clicked. You can use [`onAuthStateChange()`](/docs/reference/javascript/auth-onauthstatechange) to listen and invoke a callback function on these events.
  * When the user clicks the reset link in the email they are redirected back to your application. You can configure the URL that the user is redirected to with the `redirectTo` parameter. See [redirect URLs and wildcards](/docs/guides/auth#redirect-urls-and-wildcards) to add additional redirect URLs to your project.
  * After the user has been redirected successfully, prompt them for a new password and call `updateUser()`:

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.updateUser({

_10

password: new_password

_10

})

  
`

### Parameters

  * emailRequiredstring

The email address of the user.

  * optionsRequiredobject

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Reset passwordReset password (React)

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.resetPasswordForEmail(email, {

_10

redirectTo: 'https://example.com/update-password',

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Verify and log in through OTP

Log in a user given a User supplied OTP or TokenHash received through mobile
or email.

  * The `verifyOtp` method takes in different verification types. If a phone number is used, the type can either be `sms` or `phone_change`. If an email address is used, the type can be one of the following: `email`, `recovery`, `invite` or `email_change` (`signup` and `magiclink` types are deprecated).
  * The verification type used should be determined based on the corresponding auth method called before `verifyOtp` to sign up / sign-in a user.
  * The `TokenHash` is contained in the [email templates](/docs/guides/auth/auth-email-templates) and can be used to sign in. You may wish to use the hash with Magic Links for the PKCE flow for Server Side Auth. See [this guide](/docs/guides/auth/server-side/email-based-auth-with-pkce-flow-for-ssr) for more details.

### Parameters

  * paramsRequiredUnion: expand to see options

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Verify Signup One-Time Password (OTP)Verify Sms One-Time Password (OTP)Verify
Email Auth (Token Hash)

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.verifyOtp({ email, token, type:
'email'})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Retrieve a session

Returns the session, refreshing it if necessary.

  * This method retrieves the current local session (i.e local storage).
  * The session contains a signed JWT and unencoded session data.
  * Since the unencoded session data is retrieved from the local storage medium, **do not** rely on it as a source of trusted data on the server. It could be tampered with by the sender. If you need verified, trustworthy user data, call [`getUser`](/docs/reference/javascript/auth-getuser) instead.
  * If the session has an expired access token, this method will use the refresh token to get a new session.

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Get the session data

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.getSession()

  
`

Response

* * *

## Retrieve a new session

Returns a new session, regardless of expiry status. Takes in an optional
current session. If not passed in, then refreshSession() will attempt to
retrieve it from getSession(). If the current session's refresh token is
invalid, an error will be thrown.

  * This method will refresh and return a new session whether the current one is expired or not.

### Parameters

  * currentSessionOptionalobject

The current session. If passed in, it must contain a refresh token.

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Refresh session using the current sessionRefresh session using a refresh token

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.refreshSession()

_10

const { session, user } = data

  
`

Response

* * *

## Retrieve a user

Gets the current user details if there is an existing session. This method
performs a network request to the Supabase Auth server, so the returned value
is authentic and can be used to base authorization rules on.

  * This method fetches the user object from the database instead of local session.
  * This method is useful for checking if the user is authorized because it validates the user's access token JWT on the server.
  * Should always be used when checking for user authorization on the server. On the client, you can instead use `getSession().session.user` for faster results. `getSession` is insecure on the server.

### Parameters

  * jwtOptionalstring

Takes in an optional access token JWT. If no JWT is provided, the JWT from the
current session is used.

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Get the logged in user with the current existing sessionGet the logged in user
with a custom access token jwt

`  

_10

const { data: { user } } = await supabase.auth.getUser()

  
`

Response

* * *

## Update a user

Updates user data for a logged in user.

  * In order to use the `updateUser()` method, the user needs to be signed in first.
  * By default, email updates sends a confirmation link to both the user's current and new email. To only send a confirmation link to the user's new email, disable **Secure email change** in your project's [email auth provider settings](/dashboard/project/_/auth/providers).

### Parameters

  * attributesRequiredUserAttributes

Details

  * optionsRequiredobject

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Update the email for an authenticated userUpdate the phone number for an
authenticated userUpdate the password for an authenticated userUpdate the
user's metadataUpdate the user's password with a nonce

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.updateUser({

_10

email: '[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)'

_10

})

  
`

Response

Notes

* * *

## Retrieve identities linked to a user

Gets all the identities linked to a user.

  * The user needs to be signed in to call `getUserIdentities()`.

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Returns a list of identities linked to the user

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.getUserIdentities()

  
`

Response

* * *

## Link an identity to a user

Links an oauth identity to an existing user. This method supports the PKCE
flow.

  * The **Enable Manual Linking** option must be enabled from your [project's authentication settings](/dashboard/project/_/settings/auth).
  * The user needs to be signed in to call `linkIdentity()`.
  * If the candidate identity is already linked to the existing user or another user, `linkIdentity()` will fail.
  * If `linkIdentity` is run in the browser, the user is automatically redirected to the returned URL. On the server, you should handle the redirect.

### Parameters

  * credentialsRequiredSignInWithOAuthCredentials

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Link an identity to a user

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.linkIdentity({

_10

provider: 'github'

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Unlink an identity from a user

Unlinks an identity from a user by deleting it. The user will no longer be
able to sign in with that identity once it's unlinked.

  * The **Enable Manual Linking** option must be enabled from your [project's authentication settings](/dashboard/project/_/settings/auth).
  * The user needs to be signed in to call `unlinkIdentity()`.
  * The user must have at least 2 identities in order to unlink an identity.
  * The identity to be unlinked must belong to the user.

### Parameters

  * identityRequiredUserIdentity

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Unlink an identity

`  

_10

// retrieve all identites linked to a user

_10

const identities = await supabase.auth.getUserIdentities()

_10

_10

// find the google identity

_10

const googleIdentity = identities.find(

_10

identity => identity.provider === 'google'

_10

)

_10

_10

// unlink the google identity

_10

const { error } = await supabase.auth.unlinkIdentity(googleIdentity)

  
`

* * *

## Send a password reauthentication nonce

Sends a reauthentication OTP to the user's email or phone number. Requires the
user to be signed-in.

  * This method is used together with `updateUser()` when a user's password needs to be updated.
  * If you require your user to reauthenticate before updating their password, you need to enable the **Secure password change** option in your [project's email provider settings](/dashboard/project/_/auth/providers).
  * A user is only require to reauthenticate before updating their password if **Secure password change** is enabled and the user **hasn't recently signed in**. A user is deemed recently signed in if the session was created in the last 24 hours.
  * This method will send a nonce to the user's email. If the user doesn't have a confirmed email address, the method will send the nonce to the user's confirmed phone number instead.

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Send reauthentication nonce

`  

_10

const { error } = await supabase.auth.reauthenticate()

  
`

Notes

* * *

## Resend an OTP

Resends an existing signup confirmation email, email change email, SMS OTP or
phone change OTP.

  * Resends a signup confirmation, email change or phone change email to the user.
  * Passwordless sign-ins can be resent by calling the `signInWithOtp()` method again.
  * Password recovery emails can be resent by calling the `resetPasswordForEmail()` method again.
  * This method will only resend an email or phone OTP to the user if there was an initial signup, email change or phone change request being made.
  * You can specify a redirect url when you resend an email link using the `emailRedirectTo` option.

### Parameters

  * credentialsRequiredUnion: expand to see options

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Resend an email signup confirmationResend a phone signup confirmationResend
email change emailResend phone change OTP

`  

_10

const { error } = await supabase.auth.resend({

_10

type: 'signup',

_10

email: '[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)',

_10

options: {

_10

emailRedirectTo: 'https://example.com/welcome'

_10

}

_10

})

  
`

Notes

* * *

## Set the session data

Sets the session data from the current session. If the current session is
expired, setSession will take care of refreshing it to obtain a new session.
If the refresh token or access token in the current session is invalid, an
error will be thrown.

  * This method sets the session using an `access_token` and `refresh_token`.
  * If successful, a `SIGNED_IN` event is emitted.

### Parameters

  * currentSessionRequiredobject

The current session that minimally contains an access token and refresh token.

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Set the session

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.setSession({

_10

access_token,

_10

refresh_token

_10

})

  
`

Response

Notes

* * *

## Exchange an auth code for a session

Log in an existing user by exchanging an Auth Code issued during the PKCE
flow.

  * Used when `flowType` is set to `pkce` in client options.

### Parameters

  * authCodeRequiredstring

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Exchange Auth Code

`  

_10

supabase.auth.exchangeCodeForSession('34e770dd-9ff9-416c-87fa-43b31d7ef225')

  
`

Response

* * *

## Start auto-refresh session (non-browser)

Starts an auto-refresh process in the background. The session is checked every
few seconds. Close to the time of expiration a process is started to refresh
the session. If refreshing fails it will be retried for as long as necessary.

  * Only useful in non-browser environments such as React Native or Electron.
  * The Supabase Auth library automatically starts and stops proactively refreshing the session when a tab is focused or not.
  * On non-browser platforms, such as mobile or desktop apps built with web technologies, the library is not able to effectively determine whether the application is _focused_ or not.
  * To give this hint to the application, you should be calling this method when the app is in focus and calling `supabase.auth.stopAutoRefresh()` when it's out of focus.

### Return Type

Promise<void>

Start and stop auto refresh in React Native

`  

_10

import { AppState } from 'react-native'

_10

_10

// make sure you register this only once!

_10

AppState.addEventListener('change', (state) => {

_10

if (state === 'active') {

_10

supabase.auth.startAutoRefresh()

_10

} else {

_10

supabase.auth.stopAutoRefresh()

_10

}

_10

})

  
`

* * *

## Stop auto-refresh session (non-browser)

Stops an active auto refresh process running in the background (if any).

  * Only useful in non-browser environments such as React Native or Electron.
  * The Supabase Auth library automatically starts and stops proactively refreshing the session when a tab is focused or not.
  * On non-browser platforms, such as mobile or desktop apps built with web technologies, the library is not able to effectively determine whether the application is _focused_ or not.
  * When your application goes in the background or out of focus, call this method to stop the proactive refreshing of the session.

### Return Type

Promise<void>

Start and stop auto refresh in React Native

`  

_10

import { AppState } from 'react-native'

_10

_10

// make sure you register this only once!

_10

AppState.addEventListener('change', (state) => {

_10

if (state === 'active') {

_10

supabase.auth.startAutoRefresh()

_10

} else {

_10

supabase.auth.stopAutoRefresh()

_10

}

_10

})

  
`

* * *

## Auth MFA

This section contains methods commonly used for Multi-Factor Authentication
(MFA) and are invoked behind the `supabase.auth.mfa` namespace.

Currently, there is support for time-based one-time password (TOTP) and phone
verification code as the 2nd factor. Recovery codes are not supported but
users can enroll multiple factors, with an upper limit of 10.

Having a 2nd factor for recovery frees the user of the burden of having to
store their recovery codes somewhere. It also reduces the attack surface since
multiple recovery codes are usually generated compared to just having 1 backup
factor.

* * *

## Enroll a factor

Starts the enrollment process for a new Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)
factor. This method creates a new `unverified` factor. To verify a factor,
present the QR code or secret to the user and ask them to add it to their
authenticator app. The user has to enter the code from their authenticator app
to verify it.

  * Use `totp` or `phone` as the `factorType` and use the returned `id` to create a challenge.
  * To create a challenge, see [`mfa.challenge()`](/docs/reference/javascript/auth-mfa-challenge).
  * To verify a challenge, see [`mfa.verify()`](/docs/reference/javascript/auth-mfa-verify).
  * To create and verify a TOTP challenge in a single step, see [`mfa.challengeAndVerify()`](/docs/reference/javascript/auth-mfa-challengeandverify).
  * To generate a QR code for the `totp` secret in Next.js, you can do the following:

`  

_10

<Image src={data.totp.qr_code} alt={data.totp.uri} layout="fill"></Image>

  
`

  * The `challenge` and `verify` steps are separated when using Phone factors as the user will need time to receive and input the code obtained from the SMS in challenge.

### Parameters

  * paramsRequiredMFAEnrollParams

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Enroll a time-based, one-time password (TOTP) factorEnroll a Phone Factor

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.mfa.enroll({

_10

factorType: 'totp',

_10

friendlyName: 'your_friendly_name'

_10

})

_10

_10

// Use the id to create a challenge.

_10

// The challenge can be verified by entering the code generated from the
authenticator app.

_10

// The code will be generated upon scanning the qr_code or entering the secret
into the authenticator app.

_10

const { id, type, totp: { qr_code, secret, uri }, friendly_name } = data

_10

const challenge = await supabase.auth.mfa.challenge({ factorId: id });

  
`

Response

* * *

## Create a challenge

Prepares a challenge used to verify that a user has access to a MFA factor.

  * An [enrolled factor](/docs/reference/javascript/auth-mfa-enroll) is required before creating a challenge.
  * To verify a challenge, see [`mfa.verify()`](/docs/reference/javascript/auth-mfa-verify).
  * A phone factor sends a code to the user upon challenge. The channel defaults to `sms` unless otherwise specified.

### Parameters

  * paramsRequiredMFAChallengeParams

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Create a challenge for a factorCreate a challenge for a phone factorCreate a
challenge for a phone factor (WhatsApp)

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.mfa.challenge({

_10

factorId: '34e770dd-9ff9-416c-87fa-43b31d7ef225'

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Verify a challenge

Verifies a code against a challenge. The verification code is provided by the
user by entering a code seen in their authenticator app.

  * To verify a challenge, please [create a challenge](/docs/reference/javascript/auth-mfa-challenge) first.

### Parameters

  * paramsRequiredMFAVerifyParams

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Verify a challenge for a factor

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.mfa.verify({

_10

factorId: '34e770dd-9ff9-416c-87fa-43b31d7ef225',

_10

challengeId: '4034ae6f-a8ce-4fb5-8ee5-69a5863a7c15',

_10

code: '123456'

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Create and verify a challenge

Helper method which creates a challenge and immediately uses the given code to
verify against it thereafter. The verification code is provided by the user by
entering a code seen in their authenticator app.

  * Intended for use with only TOTP factors.
  * An [enrolled factor](/docs/reference/javascript/auth-mfa-enroll) is required before invoking `challengeAndVerify()`.
  * Executes [`mfa.challenge()`](/docs/reference/javascript/auth-mfa-challenge) and [`mfa.verify()`](/docs/reference/javascript/auth-mfa-verify) in a single step.

### Parameters

  * paramsRequiredMFAChallengeAndVerifyParams

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Create and verify a challenge for a factor

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.mfa.challengeAndVerify({

_10

factorId: '34e770dd-9ff9-416c-87fa-43b31d7ef225',

_10

code: '123456'

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Unenroll a factor

Unenroll removes a MFA factor. A user has to have an `aal2` authenticator
level in order to unenroll a `verified` factor.

### Parameters

  * paramsRequiredMFAUnenrollParams

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Unenroll a factor

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.mfa.unenroll({

_10

factorId: '34e770dd-9ff9-416c-87fa-43b31d7ef225',

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Get Authenticator Assurance Level

Returns the Authenticator Assurance Level (AAL) for the active session.

  * Authenticator Assurance Level (AAL) is the measure of the strength of an authentication mechanism.
  * In Supabase, having an AAL of `aal1` refers to having the 1st factor of authentication such as an email and password or OAuth sign-in while `aal2` refers to the 2nd factor of authentication such as a time-based, one-time-password (TOTP) or Phone factor.
  * If the user has a verified factor, the `nextLevel` field will return `aal2`, else, it will return `aal1`.

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Get the AAL details of a session

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await
supabase.auth.mfa.getAuthenticatorAssuranceLevel()

_10

const { currentLevel, nextLevel, currentAuthenticationMethods } = data

  
`

Response

* * *

## Auth Admin

  * Any method under the `supabase.auth.admin` namespace requires a `service_role` key.
  * These methods are considered admin methods and should be called on a trusted server. Never expose your `service_role` key in the browser.

Create server-side auth client

`  

_11

import { createClient } from '@supabase/supabase-js'

_11

_11

const supabase = createClient(supabase_url, service_role_key, {

_11

auth: {

_11

autoRefreshToken: false,

_11

persistSession: false

_11

}

_11

})

_11

_11

// Access auth admin api

_11

const adminAuthClient = supabase.auth.admin

  
`

* * *

## Retrieve a user

Get user by id.

  * Fetches the user object from the database based on the user's id.
  * The `getUserById()` method requires the user's id which maps to the `auth.users.id` column.

### Parameters

  * uidRequiredstring

The user's unique identifier

This function should only be called on a server. Never expose your
`service_role` key in the browser.

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Fetch the user object using the access_token jwt

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.admin.getUserById(1)

  
`

Response

* * *

## List all users

Get a list of users.

  * Defaults to return 50 users per page.

### Parameters

  * paramsOptionalPageParams

An object which supports `page` and `perPage` as numbers, to alter the
paginated results.

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Get a page of usersPaginated list of users

`  

_10

const { data: { users }, error } = await supabase.auth.admin.listUsers()

  
`

* * *

## Create a user

Creates a new user. This function should only be called on a server. Never
expose your `service_role` key in the browser.

  * To confirm the user's email address or phone number, set `email_confirm` or `phone_confirm` to true. Both arguments default to false.
  * `createUser()` will not send a confirmation email to the user. You can use [`inviteUserByEmail()`](/docs/reference/javascript/auth-admin-inviteuserbyemail) if you want to send them an email invite instead.
  * If you are sure that the created user's email or phone number is legitimate and verified, you can set the `email_confirm` or `phone_confirm` param to `true`.

### Parameters

  * attributesRequiredAdminUserAttributes

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

With custom user metadataAuto-confirm the user's emailAuto-confirm the user's
phone number

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.admin.createUser({

_10

email: '[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)',

_10

password: 'password',

_10

user_metadata: { name: 'Yoda' }

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Delete a user

Delete a user. Requires a `service_role` key.

  * The `deleteUser()` method requires the user's ID, which maps to the `auth.users.id` column.

### Parameters

  * idRequiredstring

The user id you want to remove.

  * shouldSoftDeleteRequiredboolean

If true, then the user will be soft-deleted (setting `deleted_at` to the
current timestamp and disabling their account while preserving their data)
from the auth schema. Defaults to false for backward compatibility.

This function should only be called on a server. Never expose your
`service_role` key in the browser.

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Removes a user

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.admin.deleteUser(

_10

'715ed5db-f090-4b8c-a067-640ecee36aa0'

_10

)

  
`

Response

* * *

## Send an email invite link

Sends an invite link to an email address.

  * Sends an invite link to the user's email address.
  * The `inviteUserByEmail()` method is typically used by administrators to invite users to join the application.
  * Note that PKCE is not supported when using `inviteUserByEmail`. This is because the browser initiating the invite is often different from the browser accepting the invite which makes it difficult to provide the security guarantees required of the PKCE flow.

### Parameters

  * emailRequiredstring

The email address of the user.

  * optionsRequiredobject

Additional options to be included when inviting.

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Invite a user

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.admin.inviteUserByEmail('[[email
protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)')

  
`

Response

* * *

## Generate an email link

Generates email links and OTPs to be sent via a custom email provider.

  * The following types can be passed into `generateLink()`: `signup`, `magiclink`, `invite`, `recovery`, `email_change_current`, `email_change_new`, `phone_change`.
  * `generateLink()` only generates the email link for `email_change_email` if the **Secure email change** is enabled in your project's [email auth provider settings](/dashboard/project/_/auth/providers).
  * `generateLink()` handles the creation of the user for `signup`, `invite` and `magiclink`.

### Parameters

  * paramsRequiredGenerateLinkParams

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Generate a signup linkGenerate an invite linkGenerate a magic linkGenerate a
recovery linkGenerate links to change current email address

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.admin.generateLink({

_10

type: 'signup',

_10

email: '[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)',

_10

password: 'secret'

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Update a user

Updates the user data.

### Parameters

  * uidRequiredstring

  * attributesRequiredAdminUserAttributes

The data you want to update.

This function should only be called on a server. Never expose your
`service_role` key in the browser.

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Updates a user's emailUpdates a user's passwordUpdates a user's
metadataUpdates a user's app_metadataConfirms a user's email addressConfirms a
user's phone number

`  

_10

const { data: user, error } = await supabase.auth.admin.updateUserById(

_10

'11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111',

_10

{ email: '[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)' }

_10

)

  
`

Response

* * *

## Delete a factor for a user

Deletes a factor on a user. This will log the user out of all active sessions
if the deleted factor was verified.

### Parameters

  * paramsRequiredAuthMFAAdminDeleteFactorParams

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Delete a factor for a user

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.admin.mfa.deleteFactor({

_10

id: '34e770dd-9ff9-416c-87fa-43b31d7ef225',

_10

userId: 'a89baba7-b1b7-440f-b4bb-91026967f66b',

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Invokes a Supabase Edge Function.

Invokes a function

Invoke a Supabase Edge Function.

  * Requires an Authorization header.
  * Invoke params generally match the [Fetch API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) spec.
  * When you pass in a body to your function, we automatically attach the Content-Type header for `Blob`, `ArrayBuffer`, `File`, `FormData` and `String`. If it doesn't match any of these types we assume the payload is `json`, serialize it and attach the `Content-Type` header as `application/json`. You can override this behavior by passing in a `Content-Type` header of your own.
  * Responses are automatically parsed as `json`, `blob` and `form-data` depending on the `Content-Type` header sent by your function. Responses are parsed as `text` by default.

### Parameters

  * functionNameRequiredstring

The name of the Function to invoke.

  * optionsRequiredFunctionInvokeOptions

Options for invoking the Function.

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Basic invocationError handlingPassing custom headersCalling with DELETE HTTP
verbInvoking a Function in the UsEast1 regionCalling with GET HTTP verb

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase.functions.invoke('hello', {

_10

body: { foo: 'bar' }

_10

})

  
`

* * *

## Subscribe to channel

Creates an event handler that listens to changes.

  * By default, Broadcast and Presence are enabled for all projects.
  * By default, listening to database changes is disabled for new projects due to database performance and security concerns. You can turn it on by managing Realtime's [replication](/docs/guides/api#realtime-api-overview).
  * You can receive the "previous" data for updates and deletes by setting the table's `REPLICA IDENTITY` to `FULL` (e.g., `ALTER TABLE your_table REPLICA IDENTITY FULL;`).
  * Row level security is not applied to delete statements. When RLS is enabled and replica identity is set to full, only the primary key is sent to clients.

### Parameters

  * typeRequiredUnion: expand to see options

Details

  * filterRequiredUnion: expand to see options

Details

  * callbackRequiredfunction

Details

Listen to broadcast messagesListen to presence syncListen to presence
joinListen to presence leaveListen to all database changesListen to a specific
tableListen to insertsListen to updatesListen to deletesListen to multiple
eventsListen to row level changes

`  

_13

const channel = supabase.channel("room1")

_13

_13

channel.on("broadcast", { event: "cursor-pos" }, (payload) => {

_13

console.log("Cursor position received!", payload);

_13

}).subscribe((status) => {

_13

if (status === "SUBSCRIBED") {

_13

channel.send({

_13

type: "broadcast",

_13

event: "cursor-pos",

_13

payload: { x: Math.random(), y: Math.random() },

_13

});

_13

}

_13

});

  
`

* * *

## Unsubscribe from a channel

Unsubscribes and removes Realtime channel from Realtime client.

  * Removing a channel is a great way to maintain the performance of your project's Realtime service as well as your database if you're listening to Postgres changes. Supabase will automatically handle cleanup 30 seconds after a client is disconnected, but unused channels may cause degradation as more clients are simultaneously subscribed.

### Parameters

  * channelRequired@supabase/realtime-js.RealtimeChannel

The name of the Realtime channel.

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Removes a channel

`  

_10

supabase.removeChannel(myChannel)

  
`

* * *

## Unsubscribe from all channels

Unsubscribes and removes all Realtime channels from Realtime client.

  * Removing channels is a great way to maintain the performance of your project's Realtime service as well as your database if you're listening to Postgres changes. Supabase will automatically handle cleanup 30 seconds after a client is disconnected, but unused channels may cause degradation as more clients are simultaneously subscribed.

### Return Type

Promise<Array<Union: expand to see options>>

Details

Remove all channels

`  

_10

supabase.removeAllChannels()

  
`

* * *

## Retrieve all channels

Returns all Realtime channels.

### Return Type

Array<@supabase/realtime-js.RealtimeChannel>

Get all channels

`  

_10

const channels = supabase.getChannels()

  
`

* * *

## Broadcast a message

Sends a message into the channel.

Broadcast a message to all connected clients to a channel.

  * When using REST you don't need to subscribe to the channel
  * REST calls are only available from 2.37.0 onwards

### Parameters

  * argsRequiredobject

Arguments to send to channel

Details

  * optsRequired{ [key: string]: any }

Options to be used during the send process

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Send a message via websocketSend a message via REST

`  

_11

supabase

_11

.channel('room1')

_11

.subscribe((status) => {

_11

if (status === 'SUBSCRIBED') {

_11

channel.send({

_11

type: 'broadcast',

_11

event: 'cursor-pos',

_11

payload: { x: Math.random(), y: Math.random() },

_11

})

_11

}

_11

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Create a bucket

Creates a new Storage bucket

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: `insert`
    * `objects` table permissions: none
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

### Parameters

  * idRequiredstring

A unique identifier for the bucket you are creating.

  * optionsRequiredobject

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Create bucket

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.storage

_10

.createBucket('avatars', {

_10

public: false,

_10

allowedMimeTypes: ['image/png'],

_10

fileSizeLimit: 1024

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Retrieve a bucket

Retrieves the details of an existing Storage bucket.

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: `select`
    * `objects` table permissions: none
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

### Parameters

  * idRequiredstring

The unique identifier of the bucket you would like to retrieve.

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Get bucket

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.storage

_10

.getBucket('avatars')

  
`

Response

* * *

## List all buckets

Retrieves the details of all Storage buckets within an existing project.

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: `select`
    * `objects` table permissions: none
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

List buckets

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.storage

_10

.listBuckets()

  
`

Response

* * *

## Update a bucket

Updates a Storage bucket

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: `select` and `update`
    * `objects` table permissions: none
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

### Parameters

  * idRequiredstring

A unique identifier for the bucket you are updating.

  * optionsRequiredobject

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Update bucket

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.storage

_10

.updateBucket('avatars', {

_10

public: false,

_10

allowedMimeTypes: ['image/png'],

_10

fileSizeLimit: 1024

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Delete a bucket

Deletes an existing bucket. A bucket can't be deleted with existing objects
inside it. You must first `empty()` the bucket.

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: `select` and `delete`
    * `objects` table permissions: none
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

### Parameters

  * idRequiredstring

The unique identifier of the bucket you would like to delete.

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Delete bucket

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.storage

_10

.deleteBucket('avatars')

  
`

Response

* * *

## Empty a bucket

Removes all objects inside a single bucket.

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: `select`
    * `objects` table permissions: `select` and `delete`
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

### Parameters

  * idRequiredstring

The unique identifier of the bucket you would like to empty.

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Empty bucket

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.storage

_10

.emptyBucket('avatars')

  
`

Response

* * *

## Upload a file

Uploads a file to an existing bucket.

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: none
    * `objects` table permissions: only `insert` when you are uploading new files and `select`, `insert` and `update` when you are upserting files
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works
  * For React Native, using either `Blob`, `File` or `FormData` does not work as intended. Upload file using `ArrayBuffer` from base64 file data instead, see example below.

### Parameters

  * pathRequiredstring

The file path, including the file name. Should be of the format
`folder/subfolder/filename.png`. The bucket must already exist before
attempting to upload.

  * fileBodyRequiredFileBody

The body of the file to be stored in the bucket.

  * fileOptionsOptionalFileOptions

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Upload fileUpload file using `ArrayBuffer` from base64 file data

`  

_10

const avatarFile = event.target.files[0]

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.storage

_10

.from('avatars')

_10

.upload('public/avatar1.png', avatarFile, {

_10

cacheControl: '3600',

_10

upsert: false

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Download a file

Downloads a file from a private bucket. For public buckets, make a request to
the URL returned from `getPublicUrl` instead.

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: none
    * `objects` table permissions: `select`
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

### Parameters

  * pathRequiredstring

The full path and file name of the file to be downloaded. For example
`folder/image.png`.

  * optionsOptionalobject

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Download fileDownload file with transformations

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.storage

_10

.from('avatars')

_10

.download('folder/avatar1.png')

  
`

Response

* * *

## List all files in a bucket

Lists all the files within a bucket.

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: none
    * `objects` table permissions: `select`
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

### Parameters

  * pathOptionalstring

The folder path.

  * optionsOptionalSearchOptions

Details

  * parametersOptionalFetchParameters

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

List files in a bucketSearch files in a bucket

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.storage

_10

.from('avatars')

_10

.list('folder', {

_10

limit: 100,

_10

offset: 0,

_10

sortBy: { column: 'name', order: 'asc' },

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Replace an existing file

Replaces an existing file at the specified path with a new one.

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: none
    * `objects` table permissions: `update` and `select`
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works
  * For React Native, using either `Blob`, `File` or `FormData` does not work as intended. Update file using `ArrayBuffer` from base64 file data instead, see example below.

### Parameters

  * pathRequiredstring

The relative file path. Should be of the format
`folder/subfolder/filename.png`. The bucket must already exist before
attempting to update.

  * fileBodyRequiredUnion: expand to see options

The body of the file to be stored in the bucket.

Details

  * fileOptionsOptionalFileOptions

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Update fileUpdate file using `ArrayBuffer` from base64 file data

`  

_10

const avatarFile = event.target.files[0]

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.storage

_10

.from('avatars')

_10

.update('public/avatar1.png', avatarFile, {

_10

cacheControl: '3600',

_10

upsert: true

_10

})

  
`

Response

* * *

## Move an existing file

Moves an existing file to a new path in the same bucket.

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: none
    * `objects` table permissions: `update` and `select`
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

### Parameters

  * fromPathRequiredstring

The original file path, including the current file name. For example
`folder/image.png`.

  * toPathRequiredstring

The new file path, including the new file name. For example `folder/image-
new.png`.

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Move file

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.storage

_10

.from('avatars')

_10

.move('public/avatar1.png', 'private/avatar2.png')

  
`

Response

* * *

## Copy an existing file

Copies an existing file to a new path in the same bucket.

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: none
    * `objects` table permissions: `insert` and `select`
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

### Parameters

  * fromPathRequiredstring

The original file path, including the current file name. For example
`folder/image.png`.

  * toPathRequiredstring

The new file path, including the new file name. For example `folder/image-
copy.png`.

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Copy file

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.storage

_10

.from('avatars')

_10

.copy('public/avatar1.png', 'private/avatar2.png')

  
`

Response

* * *

## Delete files in a bucket

Deletes files within the same bucket

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: none
    * `objects` table permissions: `delete` and `select`
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

### Parameters

  * pathsRequiredArray<string>

An array of files to delete, including the path and file name. For example
[`'folder/image.png'`].

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Delete file

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.storage

_10

.from('avatars')

_10

.remove(['folder/avatar1.png'])

  
`

Response

* * *

## Create a signed URL

Creates a signed URL. Use a signed URL to share a file for a fixed amount of
time.

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: none
    * `objects` table permissions: `select`
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

### Parameters

  * pathRequiredstring

The file path, including the current file name. For example
`folder/image.png`.

  * expiresInRequirednumber

The number of seconds until the signed URL expires. For example, `60` for a
URL which is valid for one minute.

  * optionsOptionalobject

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Create Signed URLCreate a signed URL for an asset with transformationsCreate a
signed URL which triggers the download of the asset

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.storage

_10

.from('avatars')

_10

.createSignedUrl('folder/avatar1.png', 60)

  
`

Response

* * *

## Create signed URLs

Creates multiple signed URLs. Use a signed URL to share a file for a fixed
amount of time.

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: none
    * `objects` table permissions: `select`
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

### Parameters

  * pathsRequiredArray<string>

The file paths to be downloaded, including the current file names. For example
`['folder/image.png', 'folder2/image2.png']`.

  * expiresInRequirednumber

The number of seconds until the signed URLs expire. For example, `60` for URLs
which are valid for one minute.

  * optionsOptionalobject

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Create Signed URLs

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.storage

_10

.from('avatars')

_10

.createSignedUrls(['folder/avatar1.png', 'folder/avatar2.png'], 60)

  
`

Response

* * *

## Create signed upload URL

Creates a signed upload URL. Signed upload URLs can be used to upload files to
the bucket without further authentication. They are valid for 2 hours.

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: none
    * `objects` table permissions: `insert`
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

### Parameters

  * pathRequiredstring

The file path, including the current file name. For example
`folder/image.png`.

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Create Signed Upload URL

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.storage

_10

.from('avatars')

_10

.createSignedUploadUrl('folder/cat.jpg')

  
`

Response

* * *

## Upload to a signed URL

Upload a file with a token generated from `createSignedUploadUrl`.

  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: none
    * `objects` table permissions: none
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

### Parameters

  * pathRequiredstring

The file path, including the file name. Should be of the format
`folder/subfolder/filename.png`. The bucket must already exist before
attempting to upload.

  * tokenRequiredstring

The token generated from `createSignedUploadUrl`

  * fileBodyRequiredFileBody

The body of the file to be stored in the bucket.

  * fileOptionsOptionalFileOptions

Details

### Return Type

Promise<Union: expand to see options>

Details

Upload to a signed URL

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.storage

_10

.from('avatars')

_10

.uploadToSignedUrl('folder/cat.jpg', 'token-from-createSignedUploadUrl', file)

  
`

Response

* * *

## Retrieve public URL

A simple convenience function to get the URL for an asset in a public bucket.
If you do not want to use this function, you can construct the public URL by
concatenating the bucket URL with the path to the asset. This function does
not verify if the bucket is public. If a public URL is created for a bucket
which is not public, you will not be able to download the asset.

  * The bucket needs to be set to public, either via [updateBucket()](/docs/reference/javascript/storage-updatebucket) or by going to Storage on [supabase.com/dashboard](https://supabase.com/dashboard), clicking the overflow menu on a bucket and choosing "Make public"
  * RLS policy permissions required:
    * `buckets` table permissions: none
    * `objects` table permissions: none
  * Refer to the [Storage guide](/docs/guides/storage/security/access-control) on how access control works

### Parameters

  * pathRequiredstring

The path and name of the file to generate the public URL for. For example
`folder/image.png`.

  * optionsOptionalobject

Details

### Return Type

object

Details

Returns the URL for an asset in a public bucketReturns the URL for an asset in
a public bucket with transformationsReturns the URL which triggers the
download of an asset in a public bucket

`  

_10

const { data } = supabase

_10

.storage

_10

.from('public-bucket')

_10

.getPublicUrl('folder/avatar1.png')

  
`

Response

* * *

## Release Notes

Supabase.js v2 release notes.

Install the latest version of @supabase/supabase-js

Terminal

`  

_10

npm install @supabase/supabase-js

  
`

### Explicit constructor options#

All client specific options within the constructor are keyed to the library.

See [PR](https://github.com/supabase/supabase-js/pull/458):

`  

_19

const supabase = createClient(apiURL, apiKey, {

_19

db: {

_19

schema: 'public',

_19

},

_19

auth: {

_19

storage: AsyncStorage,

_19

autoRefreshToken: true,

_19

persistSession: true,

_19

detectSessionInUrl: true,

_19

},

_19

realtime: {

_19

channels,

_19

endpoint,

_19

},

_19

global: {

_19

fetch: customFetch,

_19

headers: DEFAULT_HEADERS,

_19

},

_19

})

  
`

### TypeScript support#

The libraries now support typescript.

v1.0

`  

_10

// previously definitions were injected in the `from()` method

_10

supabase.from<Definitions['Message']>('messages').select('\*')

  
`

* * *

v2.0

`  

_10

import type { Database } from './DatabaseDefinitions'

_10

_10

// definitions are injected in `createClient()`

_10

const supabase = createClient<Database>(SUPABASE_URL, ANON_KEY)

_10

_10

const { data } = await supabase.from('messages').select().match({ id: 1 })

  
`

Types can be generated via the CLI:

Terminal

`  

_10

supabase start

_10

supabase gen types typescript --local > DatabaseDefinitions.ts

  
`

### Data operations return minimal#

`.insert()` / `.upsert()` / `.update()` / `.delete()` don't return rows by
default: [PR](https://github.com/supabase/postgrest-js/pull/276).

Previously, these methods return inserted/updated/deleted rows by default
(which caused [some
confusion](https://github.com/supabase/supabase/discussions/1548)), and you
can opt to not return it by specifying `returning: 'minimal'`. Now the default
behavior is to not return rows. To return inserted/updated/deleted rows, add a
`.select()` call at the end, e.g.:

`  

_10

const { data, error } = await supabase

_10

.from('my_table')

_10

.delete()

_10

.eq('id', 1)

_10

.select()

  
`

### New ordering defaults#

`.order()` now defaults to Postgres‚Äôs default:
[PR](https://github.com/supabase/postgrest-js/pull/283).

Previously `nullsFirst` defaults to `false` , meaning `null`s are ordered
last. This is bad for performance if e.g. the column uses an index with `NULLS
FIRST` (which is the default direction for indexes).

### Cookies and localstorage namespace#

Storage key name in the Auth library has changed to include project reference
which means that existing websites that had their JWT expiry set to a longer
time could find their users logged out with this upgrade.

`  

_10

const defaultStorageKey = `sb-${new
URL(this.authUrl).hostname.split('.')[0]}-auth-token`

  
`

### New Auth Types#

Typescript typings have been reworked. `Session` interface now guarantees that
it will always have an `access_token`, `refresh_token` and `user`

./types.ts

`  

_10

interface Session {

_10

provider_token?: string | null

_10

access_token: string

_10

expires_in?: number

_10

expires_at?: number

_10

refresh_token: string

_10

token_type: string

_10

user: User

_10

}

  
`

### New Auth methods#

We're removing the `signIn()` method in favor of more explicit function
signatures: `signInWithPassword()`, `signInWithOtp()`, and
`signInWithOAuth()`.

v1.0

`  

_10

const { data } = await supabase.auth.signIn({

_10

email: 'hello@example',

_10

password: 'pass',

_10

})

  
`

* * *

v2.0

`  

_10

const { data } = await supabase.auth.signInWithPassword({

_10

email: 'hello@example',

_10

password: 'pass',

_10

})

  
`

### New Realtime methods#

There is a new `channel()` method in the Realtime library, which will be used
for our Multiplayer updates.

We will deprecate the `.from().on().subscribe()` method previously used for
listening to postgres changes.

`  

_21

supabase

_21

.channel('any_string_you_want')

_21

.on('presence', { event: 'track' }, (payload) => {

_21

console.log(payload)

_21

})

_21

.subscribe()

_21

_21

supabase

_21

.channel('any_string_you_want')

_21

.on(

_21

'postgres_changes',

_21

{

_21

event: 'INSERT',

_21

schema: 'public',

_21

table: 'movies',

_21

},

_21

(payload) => {

_21

console.log(payload)

_21

}

_21

)

_21

.subscribe()

  
`

### Deprecated setAuth()#

Deprecated and removed `setAuth()` . To set a custom `access_token` jwt
instead, pass the custom header into the `createClient()` method provided:
([PR](https://github.com/supabase/gotrue-js/pull/340))

### All changes#

  * `supabase-js`
    * `shouldThrowOnError` has been removed until all the client libraries support this option ([PR](https://github.com/supabase/supabase-js/pull/490)).
  * `postgrest-js`
    * TypeScript typings have been reworked [PR](https://github.com/supabase/postgrest-js/pull/279)
    * Use `undefined` instead of `null` for function params, types, etc. (<https://github.com/supabase/postgrest-js/pull/278>)
    * Some features are now obsolete: (<https://github.com/supabase/postgrest-js/pull/275>)
      * filter shorthands (e.g. `cs` vs. `contains`)
      * `body` in response (vs. `data`)
      * `upsert`ing through the `.insert()` method
      * `auth` method on `PostgrestClient`
      * client-level `throwOnError`
  * `gotrue-js`
    * `supabase-js` client allows passing a `storageKey` param which will allow the user to set the key used in local storage for storing the session. By default, this will be namespace-d with the supabase project ref. ([PR](https://github.com/supabase/supabase-js/pull/460))
    * `signIn` method is now split into `signInWithPassword` , `signInWithOtp` , `signInWithOAuth` ([PR](https://github.com/supabase/gotrue-js/pull/304))
    * Deprecated and removed `session()` , `user()` in favour of using `getSession()` instead. `getSession()` will always return a valid session if a user is already logged in, meaning no more random logouts. ([PR](https://github.com/supabase/gotrue-js/pull/299))
    * Deprecated and removed setting for `multitab` support because `getSession()` and gotrue‚Äôs reuse interval setting takes care of session management across multiple tabs ([PR](https://github.com/supabase/gotrue-js/pull/366))
    * No more throwing of random errors, gotrue-js v2 always returns a custom error type: ([PR](https://github.com/supabase/gotrue-js/pull/341))
      * `AuthSessionMissingError`
        * Indicates that a session is expected but missing
      * `AuthNoCookieError`
        * Indicates that a cookie is expected but missing
      * `AuthInvalidCredentialsError`
        * Indicates that the incorrect credentials were passed
    * Renamed the `api` namespace to `admin` , the `admin` namespace will only contain methods that should only be used in a trusted server-side environment with the service role key
    * Moved `resetPasswordForEmail` , `getUser` and `updateUser` to the `GoTrueClient` which means they will be accessible from the `supabase.auth` namespace in `supabase-js` instead of having to do `supabase.auth.api` to access them
    * Removed `sendMobileOTP` , `sendMagicLinkEmail` in favor of `signInWithOtp`
    * Removed `signInWithEmail`, `signInWithPhone` in favor of `signInWithPassword`
    * Removed `signUpWithEmail` , `signUpWithPhone` in favor of `signUp`
    * Replaced `update` with `updateUser`
  * `storage-js`
    * Return types are more strict. Functions types used to indicate that the data returned could be null even if there was no error. We now make use of union types which only mark the data as null if there is an error and vice versa. ([PR](https://github.com/supabase/storage-js/pull/60))
    * The `upload` and `update` function returns the path of the object uploaded as the `path` parameter. Previously the returned value had the bucket name prepended to the path which made it harder to pass the value on to other storage-js methods since all methods take the bucket name and path separately. We also chose to call the returned value `path` instead of `Key` ([PR](https://github.com/supabase/storage-js/pull/75))
    * `getPublicURL` only returns the public URL inside the data object. This keeps it consistent with our other methods of returning only within the data object. No error is returned since this method cannot does not throw an error ([PR](https://github.com/supabase/storage-js/pull/93))
    * signed urls are returned as `signedUrl` instead of `signedURL` in both `createSignedUrl` and `createSignedUrls` ([PR](https://github.com/supabase/storage-js/pull/94))
    * Encodes URLs returned by `createSignedUrl`, `createSignedUrls` and `getPublicUrl` ([PR](https://github.com/supabase/storage-js/pull/86))
    * `createsignedUrl` used to return a url directly and and within the data object. This was inconsistent. Now we always return values only inside the data object across all methods. ([PR](https://github.com/supabase/storage-js/pull/88))
    * `createBucket` returns a data object instead of the name of the bucket directly. ([PR](https://github.com/supabase/storage-js/pull/89))
    * Fixed types for metadata ([PR](https://github.com/supabase/storage-js/pull/90))
    * Better error types make it easier to track down what went wrong quicker.
    * `SupabaseStorageClient` is no longer exported. Use `StorageClient` instead. ([PR](https://github.com/supabase/storage-js/pull/92)).
  * `realtime-js`
    * `RealtimeSubscription` class no longer exists and replaced by `RealtimeChannel`.
    * `RealtimeClient`'s `disconnect` method now returns type of `void` . It used to return type of `Promise<{ error: Error | null; data: boolean }`.
    * Removed `removeAllSubscriptions` and `removeSubscription` methods from `SupabaseClient` class.
    * Removed `SupabaseRealtimeClient` class.
    * Removed `SupabaseQueryBuilder` class.
    * Removed `SupabaseEventTypes` type.
      * Thinking about renaming this to something like `RealtimePostgresChangeEvents` and moving it to `realtime-js` v2.
    * Removed `.from(‚Äôtable‚Äô).on(‚ÄôINSERT‚Äô, () ‚áí {}).subscribe()` in favor of new Realtime client API.
  * `functions-js`
    * supabase-js v1 only threw an error if the fetch call itself threw an error (network errors, etc) and not if the function returned HTTP errors like 400s or 500s. We have changed this behaviour to return an error if your function throws an error.
    * We have introduced new error types to distinguish between different kinds of errors. A `FunctionsHttpError` error is returned if your function throws an error, `FunctionsRelayError` if the Supabase Relay has an error processing your function and `FunctionsFetchError` if there is a network error in calling your function.
    * The correct content-type headers are automatically attached when sending the request if you don‚Äôt pass in a `Content-Type` header and pass in an argument to your function. We automatically attach the content type for `Blob`, `ArrayBuffer`, `File`, `FormData` ,`String` . If it doesn‚Äôt match any of these we assume the payload is `json` , we serialise the payload as JSON and attach the content type as `application/json`.
    * `responseType` does not need to be explicitly passed in. We parse the response based on the `Content-Type` response header sent by the function. We support parsing the responses as `text`, `json`, `blob`, `form-data` and are parsed as `text` by default.

  * Need some help?

[Contact support](https://supabase.com/support)

  * Latest product updates?

[See Changelog](https://supabase.com/changelog)

  * Something's not right?

[Check system status](https://status.supabase.com/)

* * *

[¬© Supabase
Inc](https://supabase.com/)‚Äî[Contributing](https://github.com/supabase/supabase/blob/master/apps/docs/DEVELOPERS.md)[Author
Styleguide](https://github.com/supabase/supabase/blob/master/apps/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md)[Open
Source](https://supabase.com/open-
source)[SupaSquad](https://supabase.com/supasquad)Privacy Settings

[GitHub](https://github.com/supabase/supabase)[Twitter](https://twitter.com/supabase)[Discord](https://discord.supabase.com/)

