# [Blog](/blog)/Auth

[![Supabase Auth: Bring-your-own Auth0, Cognito, or Firebase
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flw12%2Fthird-party-
auth%2Fthumb.png&w=3840&q=100)14 Aug 2024•4 minute readSupabase Auth: Bring-
your-own Auth0, Cognito, or FirebaseUse Firebase Auth, Auth0 or AWS Cognito
(Amplify) with your Supabase project, secure your users with SMS based MFA,
and use send hooks.](/blog/third-party-auth-mfa-phone-send-hooks)

[![Supabase Auth: Identity Linking, Hooks, and HaveIBeenPwned integration
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flwx-supabase-auth%2Fauth-
thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)14 Dec 2023•7 minute readSupabase Auth: Identity
Linking, Hooks, and HaveIBeenPwned integrationFour major Auth features:
Identity Linking, Session Control, Leaked Password Protection, and
Hooks](/blog/supabase-auth-identity-linking-hooks)

[![GitHub OAuth in your Python Flask app
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Foauth2-login-python-flask-
apps%2Fflask-supabase-auth.jpg&w=3840&q=100)21 Nov 2023•5 minute readGitHub
OAuth in your Python Flask appA step-by-step guide on building Login with
Github into your Python apps.](/blog/oauth2-login-python-flask-apps)

[![Getting started with React Native authentication
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2023-11-16-react-native-
authentication%2Freact-native-authentication-supabase.jpg&w=3840&q=100)16 Nov
2023•13 minute readGetting started with React Native authenticationLearn how
to implement authentication in your React Native applications.](/blog/react-
native-authentication)

[![Offline-first React Native Apps with Expo, WatermelonDB, and Supabase
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2023-10-08-react-native-
offline-first-watermelon-db%2Fexpo-watermelondb-supabase.jpg&w=3840&q=100)8
Oct 2023•12 minute readOffline-first React Native Apps with Expo,
WatermelonDB, and SupabaseStore your data locally and sync it with Postgres
using WatermelonDB!](/blog/react-native-offline-first-watermelon-db)

[![Getting started with Flutter authentication
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fflutter-
authentication%2Fflutter-authentication.jpg&w=3840&q=100)18 Jul 2023•14 minute
readGetting started with Flutter authenticationLearn how authentication on
Flutter works through Google sign in with Supabase auth.](/blog/flutter-
authentication)

[![Native Mobile Auth Support for Google and Apple Sign in
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fnative-mobile-auth%2Fnative-
mobile-auth.png&w=3840&q=100)27 Jun 2023•3 minute readNative Mobile Auth
Support for Google and Apple Sign inSupabase auth adds full support for native
mobile sign in with Apple and Google.](/blog/native-mobile-auth)

[![Securing your Flutter apps with Multi-Factor Authentication
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fflutter-mfa%2Fflutter-mfa-
thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=100)4 May 2023•50 minute readSecuring your Flutter apps
with Multi-Factor AuthenticationBuild a Flutter app where the user is required
to authenticate using Multi-Factor Authentication.](/blog/flutter-multi-
factor-authentication)

[![Supabase Auth: SSO,  Mobile, and Server-side support
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-week-7%2Fday-4-supabase-
auth-sso-pkce%2Fsupabase-auth-sso-pkce-og.jpg&w=3840&q=100)13 Apr 2023•10
minute readSupabase Auth: SSO, Mobile, and Server-side supportSupacharging
Supabase Auth with Sign in with Apple on iOS, Single-Sign-On support with SAML
2.0, and PKCE for server-side rendering and mobile auth.](/blog/supabase-auth-
sso-pkce)

[![Multi-factor Authentication via Row Level Security Enforcement
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flw6-auth%2Fmfa-
banner.jpg&w=3840&q=100)14 Dec 2022•7 minute readMulti-factor Authentication
via Row Level Security EnforcementMFA Auth with enforcement via
RLS](/blog/mfa-auth-via-rls)

[![Flutter Authorization with RLS
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fflutter-chat-auth%2Fsupabase-
flutter-auth.jpg&w=3840&q=100)22 Nov 2022•67 minute readFlutter Authorization
with RLSLearn how you can secure your Flutter app using Supabase Row Level
Security.](/blog/flutter-authorization-with-rls)

[![Replenysh uses Supabase to implement OTP in less than 24-hours
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Freplenysh%2Fthumb-
replenysh.png&w=3840&q=100)19 Oct 2021•5 minute readReplenysh uses Supabase to
implement OTP in less than 24-hoursLearn how Replenysh uses Supabase to power
the circular economy, redefining how brands interact with their customers and
products.](/blog/replenysh-time-to-value-in-less-than-24-hours)

[![Mobbin uses Supabase to authenticate 200,000 users
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fmobbin%2Fcover-mobbin-
supabase.jpg&w=3840&q=100)28 Jul 2021•4 minute readMobbin uses Supabase to
authenticate 200,000 usersLearn how Mobbin migrated 200,000 users from
Firebase for a better authentication experience.](/blog/mobbin-
supabase-200000-users)

[![Supabase Auth v2: Phone Auth now available
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fauth-v2%2Fsupabase-
auth-v2-cover.jpg&w=3840&q=100)28 Jul 2021•4 minute readSupabase Auth v2:
Phone Auth now availablePhone Auth is available today on all new and existing
Supabase projects.](/blog/supabase-auth-passwordless-sms-login)

