# [Blog](/blog)/Database

[![Supabase Python
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flw12%2Fday-5%2Fthumb_python.png&w=3840&q=100)16
Aug 2024•6 minute readSupabase PythonSupabase Python is now officially
supported in Supabase.](/blog/python-support)

[![Supabase Auth now supports Anonymous Sign-ins
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fga-week%2Fanonymous-sign-
ins%2Fthumb.png&w=3840&q=100)17 Apr 2024•7 minute readSupabase Auth now
supports Anonymous Sign-insSign in as an anonymous user to authenticate with
Supabase](/blog/anonymous-sign-ins)

[![AI Inference now available in Supabase Edge Functions
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fga-week%2Fai-inference-now-
available-in-supabase-edge-functions%2Fthumb.jpg&w=3840&q=100)16 Apr 2024•7
minute readAI Inference now available in Supabase Edge FunctionsUse embeddings
and large language models on the edge with Supabase Edge Functions.](/blog/ai-
inference-now-available-in-supabase-edge-functions)

[![Branching now Publicly Available
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fga-week%2Fbranching-publicly-
available%2Fthumb.png&w=3840&q=100)15 Apr 2024•3 minute readBranching now
Publicly AvailableSupabase Branching is now available on Pro Plan and
above.](/blog/branching-publicly-available)

[![Oriole joins Supabase
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-11%2Foriole%2Fthumb.png&w=3840&q=100)15 Apr 2024•5 minute readOriole
joins SupabaseThe Oriole team are joining Supabase to build a faster storage
engine for Postgres.](/blog/supabase-acquires-oriole)

[![Supabase Swift thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-11%2Fswift%2Fthumb.png&w=3840&q=100)15 Apr 2024•2 minute readSupabase
SwiftSupabase Swift is now officially supported.](/blog/supabase-swift)

[![Next steps for Postgres pluggable storage
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fpluggable-storage%2Fpluggable-
storage.jpg&w=3840&q=100)1 May 2023•4 minute readNext steps for Postgres
pluggable storageExploring history of Postgres pluggable storage and the
possibility of landing it in the Postgres core.](/blog/postgres-pluggable-
strorage)

[![Supabase Reports and Metrics
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-week-sql-day-4-reports-
and-metrics%2Freports-and-metrics-thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=100)29 Jul 2021•6 minute
readSupabase Reports and MetricsWe're exposing a full set of metrics in your
projects, so that you can build better (and faster) products for your
users.](/blog/supabase-reports-and-metrics)

[![Supabase is now on Postgres 13.3
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fpg13%2Fpostgres-13-thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=100)26
Jul 2021•5 minute readSupabase is now on Postgres 13.3From today, new Supabase
projects will be on a version of Supabase Postgres that runs on Postgres
13.3.](/blog/supabase-postgres-13)

[![PgBouncer is now available in Supabase
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fbouncer%2Fpgbouncer-
thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=100)2 Apr 2021•5 minute readPgBouncer is now available in
SupabaseBetter support for Serverless and Postgres.](/blog/supabase-pgbouncer)

