# [Blog](/blog)/Flutter

[![Building offline-first mobile apps with Supabase, Flutter and Brick
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fflutter-offline-
first%2Fflutter-offline-first.jpg&w=3840&q=100)8 Oct 2024•9 minute
readBuilding offline-first mobile apps with Supabase, Flutter and BrickBrick
is an all-in-one data manager for Flutter that handles querying and uploading
between Supabase and local caches like SQLite. Using Brick, developers can
focus on implementing the application without worrying about translating or
storing their data.](/blog/offline-first-flutter-apps)

[![Building an Uber Clone with Flutter and Supabase
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fflutter-uber-clone%2Fflutter-
uber-clone-thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)5 Sep 2024•38 minute readBuilding an Uber
Clone with Flutter and SupabaseLearn how to handle real-time geospatial data
using Supabase Realtime and Flutter.](/blog/flutter-uber-clone)

[![Build a content recommendation app with Flutter and OpenAI
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2024-02-26-content-
recommendation-with-flutter%2Fog.png&w=3840&q=100)26 Feb 2024•19 minute
readBuild a content recommendation app with Flutter and OpenAIBuild a movie-
viewing app that recommends another movie based on what the user is viewing
using OpenAI, Flutter and Supabase.](/blog/content-recommendation-with-
flutter)

[![Create a Figma Clone app with Flutter and Supabase Realtime
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fflutter-figma-clone%2Ffigma-
clone-og.jpg&w=3840&q=100)26 Jan 2024•35 minute readCreate a Figma Clone app
with Flutter and Supabase RealtimeA tutorial on how to build a collaborative
design app like Figma using Flutter and Supabase Realtime.](/blog/flutter-
figma-clone)

[![Getting started with Flutter authentication
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fflutter-
authentication%2Fflutter-authentication.jpg&w=3840&q=100)18 Jul 2023•14 minute
readGetting started with Flutter authenticationLearn how authentication on
Flutter works through Google sign in with Supabase auth.](/blog/flutter-
authentication)

[![Flutter Hackathon thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fflutter-
hackathon%2Fthumbnail.jpg&w=3840&q=100)12 May 2023•4 minute readFlutter
HackathonBuild Flutter apps and win limited edition swag.](/blog/flutter-
hackathon)

[![Securing your Flutter apps with Multi-Factor Authentication
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fflutter-mfa%2Fflutter-mfa-
thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=100)4 May 2023•50 minute readSecuring your Flutter apps
with Multi-Factor AuthenticationBuild a Flutter app where the user is required
to authenticate using Multi-Factor Authentication.](/blog/flutter-multi-
factor-authentication)

[![How to build a real-time multiplayer game with Flutter Flame
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fflutter-realtime-
game%2Fflutter-flame-realtime-multiplayer-game.jpg&w=3840&q=100)14 Feb 2023•37
minute readHow to build a real-time multiplayer game with Flutter FlameBuild a
real-time multiplayer game using Flutter, Flame, and Supabase
realtime.](/blog/flutter-real-time-multiplayer-game)

[![Flutter Authorization with RLS
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fflutter-chat-auth%2Fsupabase-
flutter-auth.jpg&w=3840&q=100)22 Nov 2022•67 minute readFlutter Authorization
with RLSLearn how you can secure your Flutter app using Supabase Row Level
Security.](/blog/flutter-authorization-with-rls)

[![supabase-flutter v1 Released
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fflutter-v1-release%2Fflutter_v1_official_release.jpeg&w=3840&q=100)21
Oct 2022•3 minute readsupabase-flutter v1 ReleasedWe've released supabase-
flutter v1. More intuitive way of accessing Supabase from your Flutter
application.](/blog/supabase-flutter-sdk-v1-released)

[![Supabase Flutter SDK 1.0 Developer Preview
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fflutter-1%2Fsupabase-
flutter-1.jpg&w=3840&q=100)2 Aug 2022•6 minute readSupabase Flutter SDK 1.0
Developer PreviewSupabase Flutter SDK is getting a major update and we need
your help making it better.](/blog/supabase-flutter-sdk-1-developer-preview)

[![Flutter Tutorial: building a Flutter chat app
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fflutter-chat%2Fflutter-chat-
app.jpg&w=3840&q=100)30 Jun 2022•39 minute readFlutter Tutorial: building a
Flutter chat appLearn how to build a Flutter chat app with open source and
scalable backend (inc. auth, realtime, database, and more).](/blog/flutter-
tutorial-building-a-chat-app)

[![Spot: a video sharing app built with Flutter
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fspot%2Fcover-spot-flutter-
supabase.jpg&w=3840&q=100)27 Jul 2021•5 minute readSpot: a video sharing app
built with FlutterSpot is a geolocation-based video-sharing app with some
social networking features.](/blog/spot-flutter-with-postgres)

