# [Blog](/blog)/Functions

[![Edge Functions are now 2x smaller and boot 3x faster
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fedge-functions-faster-
smaller%2Fedge-fns-faster-thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)12 Sep 2024•7 minute readEdge
Functions are now 2x smaller and boot 3x fasterRedeploy your Edge Functions
with the CLI v1.192.5 for a peformance boost](/blog/edge-functions-faster-
smaller)

[![Mozilla Llamafile in Supabase Edge Functions
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fmozilla-llamafile%2Fmozilla-
llamafile-og.png&w=3840&q=100)21 Aug 2024•7 minute readMozilla Llamafile in
Supabase Edge FunctionsUse Mozilla Llamafile OpenAI API compatible server in
Supabase Edge Functions.](/blog/mozilla-llamafile-in-supabase-edge-functions)

[![Building ChatGPT Plugins with Supabase Edge Runtime
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2023-05-15-chatgpt-plugin-
temnplate-deno%2Fchatgpt_plugin_template_deno.jpeg&w=3840&q=100)15 May 2023•10
minute readBuilding ChatGPT Plugins with Supabase Edge RuntimeWe're releasing
a ChatGPT plugin template written in TypeScript and running on
Deno!](/blog/building-chatgpt-plugins-template)

[![Supabase Edge Runtime: Self-hosted Deno Functions
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-week-7%2Fday-2-edge-
runtime%2Fedge-runtime-thumb.jpeg&w=3840&q=100)11 Apr 2023•10 minute
readSupabase Edge Runtime: Self-hosted Deno FunctionsWe are open-sourcing
Supabase Edge Runtime allowing you to host your Edge Functions
anywhere.](/blog/edge-runtime-self-hosted-deno-functions)

[![Edge Functions are now available in Supabase
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-week-4%2Fthursday-
functions%2Ffunctions-thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)31 Mar 2022•10 minute readEdge
Functions are now available in SupabaseToday we're launching Edge Functions.
Edge Functions let you execute Typescript code close to your users, no matter
where they're located.](/blog/supabase-edge-functions)

[![Five more things thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-three%2Ffive-more-things%2Ffive-more-things-thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)3 Dec
2021•5 minute readFive more thingsIt's never just one more
thing!](/blog/launch-week-three-friday-five-more-things)

[![Updates for Supabase Functions
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Ffunctions-updates%2Fthumb-
supabase-hooks.jpg&w=3840&q=100)30 Jul 2021•8 minute readUpdates for Supabase
FunctionsThe question on everyone's mind - are we launching Supabase
Functions? Well, it's complicated.](/blog/supabase-functions-updates)

[![Workflows are coming to Supabase
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fworkflows%2Fworkflows-
thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=100)2 Apr 2021•9 minute readWorkflows are coming to
SupabaseFunctions are great, but you know what's better?](/blog/supabase-
workflows)

