# [Blog](/blog)/Planetpg

[![What's new in pgvector v0.7.0
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fpgvector-0-7-0.png&w=3840&q=100)2
May 2024•8 minute readWhat's new in pgvector v0.7.0Exploring new features in
pgvector v0.7.0](/blog/pgvector-0-7-0)

[![Postgres Bloat Minimization
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fpostgres-
bloat.png&w=3840&q=100)26 Apr 2024•7 minute readPostgres Bloat
MinimizationUnderstanding and minimizing Postgres table bloat](/blog/postgres-
bloat)

[![Postgres Roles and Privileges
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2024-04-11-postgres-roles%2Fpg-
roles-og.png&w=3840&q=100)11 Apr 2024•43 minute readPostgres Roles and
PrivilegesA guide to Postgres roles and privileges](/blog/postgres-roles-and-
privileges)

[![How pg_graphql works thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fhow-pg-
graphql-works%2Fthumb.png&w=3840&q=100)24 Jan 2024•14 minute readHow
pg_graphql worksAn insight into the internals of GraphQL in Postgres using
pg_graphql, and how you can contribute.](/blog/how-pg-graphql-works)

[![Elixir clustering using Postgres
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Felixir-clustering-using-
postgres%2Felixir-clustering-thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=100)9 Jan 2024•6 minute
readElixir clustering using PostgresLearn about our approach to connecting
multiple nodes in Elixir using Postgres](/blog/elixir-clustering-using-
postgres)

[![Supabase Wrappers v0.2: Query Pushdown & Remote Subqueries
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flwx-wrappers%2Fwrappers-
thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)14 Dec 2023•6 minute readSupabase Wrappers v0.2: Query
Pushdown & Remote SubqueriesSupabase Wrappers v0.2 brings more Wrappers, query
pushdown, remote subquery, and more](/blog/supabase-wrappers-v02)

[![PostgREST 12 thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flwx-
postgrest-12%2Fpostgrest12-thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)13 Dec 2023•4 minute
readPostgREST 12PostgREST 12 is out and we take a look at some of the major
new features like JWT Caching and Aggregate Functions](/blog/postgrest-12)

[![Supavisor 1.0: a scalable connection pooler for Postgres
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flwx-supavisor%2Fsupavisor-
thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)13 Dec 2023•7 minute readSupavisor 1.0: a scalable
connection pooler for PostgresSupavisor is now used across all projects,
providing a scalable and cloud-native Postgres connection pooler that can
handle millions of connections](/blog/supavisor-postgres-connection-pooler)

[![pg_graphql: Postgres functions now supported
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flwx-pg-graphql%2Fpg-graphql-
thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)12 Dec 2023•7 minute readpg_graphql: Postgres functions
now supportedpg_graphql now supports the most requested feature: Postgres
functions a.k.a. User Defined Functions (UDFs)](/blog/pg-graphql-postgres-
functions)

[![Postgres Language Server: implementing the Parser
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flwx-postgres-language-
server%2Fpostgres-language-server-thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=100)8 Dec 2023•26 minute
readPostgres Language Server: implementing the ParserA detailed analysis of
our iterations to implement a Parser for Postgres](/blog/postgres-language-
server-implementing-parser)

[![pgvector v0.5.0: Faster semantic search with HNSW indexes
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2023-09-06-increase-
performance-pgvector-hnsw%2Fpgvector-v0-5-0-thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)6 Sep
2023•11 minute readpgvector v0.5.0: Faster semantic search with HNSW
indexesIncrease performance in pgvector using HNSW indexes](/blog/increase-
performance-pgvector-hnsw)

[![pgvector: Fewer dimensions are better
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2023-08-03-fewer-dimensions-
are-better-pgvector%2Ffewer-dimensions-thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)3 Aug 2023•11
minute readpgvector: Fewer dimensions are betterIncrease performance in
pgvector by using embedding vectors with fewer dimensions](/blog/fewer-
dimensions-are-better-pgvector)

[![pgvector 0.4.0 performance
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2023-07-13-pgvector-
performance%2Fvector-benchmarks-thumb.jpeg&w=3840&q=100)13 Jul 2023•13 minute
readpgvector 0.4.0 performanceThere's been a lot of talk about pgvector
performance lately, so we took some datasets and pushed pgvector to the limits
to find out its strengths and limitations.](/blog/pgvector-performance)

[![Next steps for Postgres pluggable storage
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fpluggable-storage%2Fpluggable-
storage.jpg&w=3840&q=100)1 May 2023•4 minute readNext steps for Postgres
pluggable storageExploring history of Postgres pluggable storage and the
possibility of landing it in the Postgres core.](/blog/postgres-pluggable-
strorage)

[![What's New in pg_graphql v1.2
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-week-6%2Fpggraphql%2Fog-
pg-graphql.png&w=3840&q=100)21 Apr 2023•6 minute readWhat's New in pg_graphql
v1.2New Features in the v1.2 release of pg_graphql](/blog/whats-new-in-pg-
graphql-v1-2)

[![Type Constraints in 65 lines of SQL
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2023-jan%2Fsemver-
thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=100)17 Feb 2023•10 minute readType Constraints in 65 lines
of SQLCreating validated data types in Postgres](/blog/type-constraints-
in-65-lines-of-sql)

[![Storing OpenAI embeddings in Postgres with pgvector
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fembeddings%2Fog_pgvector.png&w=3840&q=100)6
Feb 2023•15 minute readStoring OpenAI embeddings in Postgres with pgvectorAn
example of how to build an AI-powered search engine using OpenAI's embeddings
and PostgreSQL.](/blog/openai-embeddings-postgres-vector)

[![What's new in Postgres 15?
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flw6-community%2Fpg15.png&w=3840&q=100)16
Dec 2022•5 minute readWhat's new in Postgres 15?Describes the release of
Postgres 15, new features and reasons to use it](/blog/new-in-postgres-15)

[![pg_graphql v1.0 thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-6%2Fpggraphql%2Fog-pg-graphql.png&w=3840&q=100)16 Dec 2022•6 minute
readpg_graphql v1.0Announcing the v1.0 release of pg_graphql](/blog/pg-
graphql-v1)

[![Point in Time Recovery is now available for Pro projects
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-week-6%2Fpitr%2Fog-
pitr.png&w=3840&q=100)16 Dec 2022•3 minute readPoint in Time Recovery is now
available for Pro projectsWe're making PITR available for more projects, with
a new Dashboard UI that makes it simple to use.](/blog/postgres-point-in-time-
recovery)

[![PostgREST 11 pre-release
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flw6-community%2Fpostgrest.png&w=3840&q=100)16
Dec 2022•5 minute readPostgREST 11 pre-releaseDescribes new features of
PostgREST 11 pre-release](/blog/postgrest-11-prerelease)

[![Supabase Vault is now in Beta
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-week-6%2Fvault%2Fog-
vault.png&w=3840&q=100)16 Dec 2022•8 minute readSupabase Vault is now in BetaA
Postgres extension to store encrypted secrets and encrypt data.](/blog/vault-
now-in-beta)

[![pg_crdt - an experimental CRDT extension for Postgres
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-week-6%2Fcrdt%2Fog-pg-
crdt.png&w=3840&q=100)10 Dec 2022•9 minute readpg_crdt - an experimental CRDT
extension for PostgresEmbedding Yjs and Automerge into Postgres for
collaborative applications.](/blog/postgres-crdt)

[![SQL or NoSQL? Why not use both \(with PostgreSQL\)?
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2022-11-24-sql-nosql-
postgresql%2Fsql-nosql-postgresql.jpg&w=3840&q=100)24 Nov 2022•18 minute
readSQL or NoSQL? Why not use both (with PostgreSQL)?How to turn Postgres into
an easy-to-use NoSQL database that retains all the power of SQL](/blog/sql-or-
nosql-both-with-postgresql)

[![What is PostgreSQL commitfest and how to contribute
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fwhat-is-postgres-
commitfest%2Fwhat-is-postgres-commitfest.jpg&w=3840&q=100)27 Oct 2022•11
minute readWhat is PostgreSQL commitfest and how to contributeA time-tested
method for contributing to the core Postgres code](/blog/postgresql-
commitfest)

[![Postgres Full Text Search vs the rest
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fpostgres-fts-vs-the-
rest%2Fpostgres-full-text-search.jpg&w=3840&q=100)14 Oct 2022•14 minute
readPostgres Full Text Search vs the restComparing one of the most popular
Postgres features against alternatives](/blog/postgres-full-text-search-vs-
the-rest)

[![Postgres WASM by Snaplet and Supabase
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fpostgres-wasm%2Fpostgres-
wasm.jpg&w=3840&q=100)3 Oct 2022•11 minute readPostgres WASM by Snaplet and
SupabaseWe're open sourcing postgres-wasm, a PostgresQL server that runs
inside a browser, with our friends at Snaplet.](/blog/postgres-wasm)

[![Choosing a Postgres Primary Key
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fprimary-keys%2Fpostgres-
primary-key.jpg&w=3840&q=100)8 Sep 2022•18 minute readChoosing a Postgres
Primary KeyTurns out the question of which identifier to use as a Primary Key
is complicated -- we're going to dive into some of the complexity and inherent
trade-offs, and figure things out](/blog/choosing-a-postgres-primary-key)

[![pg_jsonschema: JSON Schema support for Postgres
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flw5-pg_jsonschema%2Fjsonschema-
thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=100)19 Aug 2022•6 minute readpg_jsonschema: JSON Schema
support for PostgresToday we're releasing pg_jsonschema, a Postgres extension
for JSON validation.](/blog/pg-jsonschema-a-postgres-extension-for-json-
validation)

[![Implementing "seen by" functionality with Postgres
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fseen-by%2Fseen-by-postgresql-
thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)18 Jul 2022•33 minute readImplementing "seen by"
functionality with PostgresDifferent approaches for tracking visitor counts
with PostgreSQL.](/blog/seen-by-in-postgresql)

[![Partial data dumps using Postgres Row Level Security
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fpartial-dumps%2Fog-partial-
dumps-with-rls.png&w=3840&q=100)28 Jun 2022•6 minute readPartial data dumps
using Postgres Row Level SecurityUsing RLS to create seed files for local
PostgreSQL testing.](/blog/partial-postgresql-data-dumps-with-rls)

[![Postgres Auditing in 150 lines of SQL
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fsupa-
audit%2Fpostgres_auditing_in_150_lines_of_SQL.png&w=3840&q=100)8 Mar 2022•13
minute readPostgres Auditing in 150 lines of SQLPostgreSQL has a robust set of
features which we can leverage to create a generic auditing solution in 150
lines of SQL.](/blog/postgres-audit)

[![Protecting reserved roles with PostgreSQL Hooks
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fpostgres-hooks%2Fcover-
postgres-hooks.jpg&w=3840&q=100)2 Jul 2021•14 minute readProtecting reserved
roles with PostgreSQL HooksUsing Postgres Hooks to protect functionality in
your Postgres database.](/blog/roles-postgres-hooks)

[![Postgres as a CRON Server
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-postgres-
cron.png&w=3840&q=100)5 Mar 2021•8 minute readPostgres as a CRON ServerRunning
repetitive tasks with your Postgres database.](/blog/postgres-as-a-cron-
server)

[![Cracking PostgreSQL Interview Questions
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Felephants.png&w=3840&q=100)27
Feb 2021•7 minute readCracking PostgreSQL Interview QuestionsUnderstand the
top PostgreSQL Interview Questions](/blog/cracking-postgres-interview)

[![Postgres Views thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fblog-
placeholder.png&w=3840&q=100)18 Nov 2020•7 minute readPostgres ViewsCreating
and using a view in PostgreSQL.](/blog/postgresql-views)

[![Continuous PostgreSQL Backups using WAL-G
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fblog-
placeholder.png&w=3840&q=100)2 Aug 2020•6 minute readContinuous PostgreSQL
Backups using WAL-GHave you ever wanted to restore your database's state to a
particular moment in time? This post explains how, using
WAL-G.](/blog/continuous-postgresql-backup-walg)

[![What are PostgreSQL Templates?
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fblog-
placeholder.png&w=3840&q=100)9 Jul 2020•4 minute readWhat are PostgreSQL
Templates?What are PostgreSQL templates and what are they used
for?](/blog/postgresql-templates)

[![Physical vs Logical Backups in PostgreSQL
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fblog-
placeholder.png&w=3840&q=100)7 Jul 2020•5 minute readPhysical vs Logical
Backups in PostgreSQLWhat are physical and logical backups in
Postgres?](/blog/postgresql-physical-logical-backups)

