# [Blog](/blog)/Postgres

[![Live Share: Connect to in-browser PGlite with any Postgres client
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fdatabase-build-live-
share%2Fdatabase-build-live-share-thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)10 Oct 2024•8 minute
readLive Share: Connect to in-browser PGlite with any Postgres clientConnect
any Postgres client to your postgres.new databases.](/blog/database-build-
live-share)

[![postgres.new: In-browser Postgres with an AI interface
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flw12%2Fday-1%2Fpostgres-new-
thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)12 Aug 2024•15 minute readpostgres.new: In-browser
Postgres with an AI interfaceIntroducing postgres.new, the in-browser Postgres
sandbox with AI assistance.](/blog/postgres-new)

[![Simplifying Time-Based Queries with Range Columns
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Frange-columns%2Frange-columns-
thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)11 Jul 2024•6 minute readSimplifying Time-Based Queries
with Range ColumnsLearn how to use range columns in Postgres to simplify time-
based queries and add constraints to prevent overlaps.](/blog/range-columns)

[![Postgres Realtime location sharing with MapLibre
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fpostgres_realtime_maplibre%2Fpostgres_realtime_maplibre.png&w=3840&q=100)4
Jul 2024•8 minute readPostgres Realtime location sharing with MapLibreUse
Supabase Realtime to draw live location data onto the map with MapLibre GL
JS.](/blog/postgres-realtime-location-sharing-with-maplibre)

[![Generate Vector Tiles with PostGIS
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fpostgis_vector_tiles%2Foverture_postgis_mvt.png&w=3840&q=100)26
Jun 2024•12 minute readGenerate Vector Tiles with PostGISUse PostGIS to
programmatically generate Mapbox Vector Tiles and render them with MapLibre
GL.](/blog/postgis-generate-vector-tiles)

[![Implementing semantic image search with Amazon Titan and Supabase Vector
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fgetting-started%2Famazon-
bedrock%2Famazon-bedrock-supabase-vecs.png&w=3840&q=100)26 Mar 2024•9 minute
readImplementing semantic image search with Amazon Titan and Supabase
VectorImplementing semantic image search with Amazon Titan and Supabase Vector
in Python.](/blog/semantic-image-search-amazon-bedrock)

[![Build a content recommendation app with Flutter and OpenAI
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2024-02-26-content-
recommendation-with-flutter%2Fog.png&w=3840&q=100)26 Feb 2024•19 minute
readBuild a content recommendation app with Flutter and OpenAIBuild a movie-
viewing app that recommends another movie based on what the user is viewing
using OpenAI, Flutter and Supabase.](/blog/content-recommendation-with-
flutter)

[![Matryoshka embeddings: faster OpenAI vector search using Adaptive Retrieval
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2024-02-13-matryoshka-
embeddings%2Fmatryoshka-embeddings-thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)13 Feb 2024•22
minute readMatryoshka embeddings: faster OpenAI vector search using Adaptive
RetrievalUse Adaptive Retrieval to improve query performance with OpenAI's new
embedding models](/blog/matryoshka-embeddings)

[![NoSQL Postgres: Add MongoDB compatibility to your Supabase projects with
FerretDB thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fgetting-
started%2Fferretdb%2Fferretdb.jpg&w=3840&q=100)31 Jan 2024•6 minute readNoSQL
Postgres: Add MongoDB compatibility to your Supabase projects with
FerretDBNoSQL Postgres: Add MongoDB compatibility to your Supabase projects
with FerretDB](/blog/nosql-mongodb-compatibility-with-ferretdb-and-flydotio)

[![pgvector 0.6.0: 30x faster with parallel index builds
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2024-01-30-pgvector-fast-
builds%2Fpgvector6.png&w=3840&q=100)30 Jan 2024•14 minute readpgvector 0.6.0:
30x faster with parallel index buildspgvector 0.6.0 brings a significant
improvement: parallel index builds for HNSW. Building an HNSW index is now up
to 30x faster for unlogged tables.](/blog/pgvector-fast-builds)

[![Getting started with Ruby on Rails and Postgres on Supabase
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fgetting-
started%2Frails%2Frails.jpg&w=3840&q=100)29 Jan 2024•5 minute readGetting
started with Ruby on Rails and Postgres on SupabaseLearn how to create a new
Rails app and connect it to a Supabase Postgres database.](/blog/ruby-on-
rails-postgres)

[![Getting started with Laravel and Postgres
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fgetting-
started%2Flaravel%2Flaravel.jpg&w=3840&q=100)22 Jan 2024•4 minute readGetting
started with Laravel and PostgresLearn how to create a new Laravel PHP app and
connect it to a Supabase PostgreSQL database.](/blog/laravel-postgres)

[![Top 10 Launches of LWX thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flwx-
best-launches%2Ftop-10-thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)19 Dec 2023•6 minute readTop 10
Launches of LWXOur CEO takes a look at his favorite ships from
LWX](/blog/launch-week-x-best-launches)

[![Introducing Read Replicas
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flwx-read-replicas%2Fread-
replicas-thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)15 Dec 2023•8 minute readIntroducing Read
ReplicasWe are launching support for Postgres Read
Replicas](/blog/introducing-read-replicas)

[![Fly Postgres, managed by Supabase
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flwx-supafly%2Ffly-postgres-
thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)15 Dec 2023•5 minute readFly Postgres, managed by
SupabaseA managed Postgres offering developed by Supabase and
Fly.io](/blog/postgres-on-fly-by-supabase)

[![Supabase Branching thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flwx-
supabase-branching%2Fbranching-thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)13 Dec 2023•8 minute
readSupabase BranchingA Postgres database for every Pull
Request.](/blog/supabase-branching)

[![Supavisor 1.0: a scalable connection pooler for Postgres
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flwx-supavisor%2Fsupavisor-
thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)13 Dec 2023•7 minute readSupavisor 1.0: a scalable
connection pooler for PostgresSupavisor is now used across all projects,
providing a scalable and cloud-native Postgres connection pooler that can
handle millions of connections](/blog/supavisor-postgres-connection-pooler)

[![Postgres Language Server: implementing the Parser
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flwx-postgres-language-
server%2Fpostgres-language-server-thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=100)8 Dec 2023•26 minute
readPostgres Language Server: implementing the ParserA detailed analysis of
our iterations to implement a Parser for Postgres](/blog/postgres-language-
server-implementing-parser)

[![pgvector vs Pinecone: cost and performance
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2023-10-10-pgvector-vs-
pinecone%2Fpgvector-pinecone-thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)10 Oct 2023•9 minute
readpgvector vs Pinecone: cost and performanceDirect performance comparison
between pgvector and Pinecone.](/blog/pgvector-vs-pinecone)

[![Dynamic Table Partitioning in Postgres
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fpartitions%2Fdynamic-table-
partitioning-thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)3 Oct 2023•25 minute readDynamic Table
Partitioning in PostgresLearn how to scale large postgres tables in place and
increase query performance.](/blog/postgres-dynamic-table-partitioning)

[![pgvector v0.5.0: Faster semantic search with HNSW indexes
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2023-09-06-increase-
performance-pgvector-hnsw%2Fpgvector-v0-5-0-thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)6 Sep
2023•11 minute readpgvector v0.5.0: Faster semantic search with HNSW
indexesIncrease performance in pgvector using HNSW indexes](/blog/increase-
performance-pgvector-hnsw)

[![Supavisor: Scaling Postgres to 1 Million Connections
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-8%2Fday-5%2Fsupavisor-thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=100)11 Aug 2023•14 minute
readSupavisor: Scaling Postgres to 1 Million ConnectionsSupavisor is a
scalable, cloud-native Postgres connection pooler. We connected a million
clients to it to see how it performs.](/blog/supavisor-1-million)

[![pgvector: Fewer dimensions are better
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2023-08-03-fewer-dimensions-
are-better-pgvector%2Ffewer-dimensions-thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)3 Aug 2023•11
minute readpgvector: Fewer dimensions are betterIncrease performance in
pgvector by using embedding vectors with fewer dimensions](/blog/fewer-
dimensions-are-better-pgvector)

[![pgvector 0.4.0 performance
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2023-07-13-pgvector-
performance%2Fvector-benchmarks-thumb.jpeg&w=3840&q=100)13 Jul 2023•13 minute
readpgvector 0.4.0 performanceThere's been a lot of talk about pgvector
performance lately, so we took some datasets and pushed pgvector to the limits
to find out its strengths and limitations.](/blog/pgvector-performance)

[![What is new in PostgREST v11.1?
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flw6-community%2Fpostgrest.png&w=3840&q=100)12
Jul 2023•6 minute readWhat is new in PostgREST v11.1?Impersonated Role
Settings, Configurable Isolation Level, improved Bulk Insert, and
more](/blog/postgrest-11-1-release)

[![Supabase Vecs: a vector client for Postgres
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2023-06-01-vecs%2Fog-
image.jpg&w=3840&q=100)29 May 2023•6 minute readSupabase Vecs: a vector client
for PostgresIntroducing Supabase Vecs, a PostgreSQL vector client](/blog/vecs)

[![ChatGPT plugins now support Postgres & Supabase
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2023-05-25-chatgpt-plugins-
support-postgres%2Fchatgpt-plugins-support-postgres.jpeg&w=3840&q=100)25 May
2023•10 minute readChatGPT plugins now support Postgres & SupabaseSupabase
recently contributed to the OpenAI Retrieval Plugin repo with a Postgres and a
Supabase implementation to help developers build ChatGPT plugins using
pgvector.](/blog/chatgpt-plugins-support-postgres)

[![Next steps for Postgres pluggable storage
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fpluggable-storage%2Fpluggable-
storage.jpg&w=3840&q=100)1 May 2023•4 minute readNext steps for Postgres
pluggable storageExploring history of Postgres pluggable storage and the
possibility of landing it in the Postgres core.](/blog/postgres-pluggable-
strorage)

[![What's New in pg_graphql v1.2
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-week-6%2Fpggraphql%2Fog-
pg-graphql.png&w=3840&q=100)21 Apr 2023•6 minute readWhat's New in pg_graphql
v1.2New Features in the v1.2 release of pg_graphql](/blog/whats-new-in-pg-
graphql-v1-2)

[![dbdev: PostgreSQL Package Manager
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-week-7%2Fday-5-one-more-
thing%2Fday-5-dbdev-thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=100)14 Apr 2023•11 minute readdbdev:
PostgreSQL Package ManagerWe're publicly previewing dbdev, a PostgreSQL
package manager.](/blog/dbdev)

[![Trusted Language Extensions for Postgres
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-week-7%2Fday-5-supabase-
pg-tle%2Fday-5-postgres-tle-thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=100)14 Apr 2023•6 minute
readTrusted Language Extensions for PostgresWe're collaborating with AWS to
bring Trusted Language Extensions to Postgres.](/blog/pg-tle)

[![Type Constraints in 65 lines of SQL
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2023-jan%2Fsemver-
thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=100)17 Feb 2023•10 minute readType Constraints in 65 lines
of SQLCreating validated data types in Postgres](/blog/type-constraints-
in-65-lines-of-sql)

[![Storing OpenAI embeddings in Postgres with pgvector
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fembeddings%2Fog_pgvector.png&w=3840&q=100)6
Feb 2023•15 minute readStoring OpenAI embeddings in Postgres with pgvectorAn
example of how to build an AI-powered search engine using OpenAI's embeddings
and PostgreSQL.](/blog/openai-embeddings-postgres-vector)

[![What's new in Postgres 15?
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flw6-community%2Fpg15.png&w=3840&q=100)16
Dec 2022•5 minute readWhat's new in Postgres 15?Describes the release of
Postgres 15, new features and reasons to use it](/blog/new-in-postgres-15)

[![pg_graphql v1.0 thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-6%2Fpggraphql%2Fog-pg-graphql.png&w=3840&q=100)16 Dec 2022•6 minute
readpg_graphql v1.0Announcing the v1.0 release of pg_graphql](/blog/pg-
graphql-v1)

[![Point in Time Recovery is now available for Pro projects
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-week-6%2Fpitr%2Fog-
pitr.png&w=3840&q=100)16 Dec 2022•3 minute readPoint in Time Recovery is now
available for Pro projectsWe're making PITR available for more projects, with
a new Dashboard UI that makes it simple to use.](/blog/postgres-point-in-time-
recovery)

[![PostgREST 11 pre-release
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flw6-community%2Fpostgrest.png&w=3840&q=100)16
Dec 2022•5 minute readPostgREST 11 pre-releaseDescribes new features of
PostgREST 11 pre-release](/blog/postgrest-11-prerelease)

[![Supabase Vault is now in Beta
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-week-6%2Fvault%2Fog-
vault.png&w=3840&q=100)16 Dec 2022•8 minute readSupabase Vault is now in BetaA
Postgres extension to store encrypted secrets and encrypt data.](/blog/vault-
now-in-beta)

[![pg_crdt - an experimental CRDT extension for Postgres
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-week-6%2Fcrdt%2Fog-pg-
crdt.png&w=3840&q=100)10 Dec 2022•9 minute readpg_crdt - an experimental CRDT
extension for PostgresEmbedding Yjs and Automerge into Postgres for
collaborative applications.](/blog/postgres-crdt)

[![SQL or NoSQL? Why not use both \(with PostgreSQL\)?
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2022-11-24-sql-nosql-
postgresql%2Fsql-nosql-postgresql.jpg&w=3840&q=100)24 Nov 2022•18 minute
readSQL or NoSQL? Why not use both (with PostgreSQL)?How to turn Postgres into
an easy-to-use NoSQL database that retains all the power of SQL](/blog/sql-or-
nosql-both-with-postgresql)

[![What is PostgreSQL commitfest and how to contribute
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fwhat-is-postgres-
commitfest%2Fwhat-is-postgres-commitfest.jpg&w=3840&q=100)27 Oct 2022•11
minute readWhat is PostgreSQL commitfest and how to contributeA time-tested
method for contributing to the core Postgres code](/blog/postgresql-
commitfest)

[![Postgres Full Text Search vs the rest
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fpostgres-fts-vs-the-
rest%2Fpostgres-full-text-search.jpg&w=3840&q=100)14 Oct 2022•14 minute
readPostgres Full Text Search vs the restComparing one of the most popular
Postgres features against alternatives](/blog/postgres-full-text-search-vs-
the-rest)

[![Postgres WASM by Snaplet and Supabase
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fpostgres-wasm%2Fpostgres-
wasm.jpg&w=3840&q=100)3 Oct 2022•11 minute readPostgres WASM by Snaplet and
SupabaseWe're open sourcing postgres-wasm, a PostgresQL server that runs
inside a browser, with our friends at Snaplet.](/blog/postgres-wasm)

[![Choosing a Postgres Primary Key
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fprimary-keys%2Fpostgres-
primary-key.jpg&w=3840&q=100)8 Sep 2022•18 minute readChoosing a Postgres
Primary KeyTurns out the question of which identifier to use as a Primary Key
is complicated -- we're going to dive into some of the complexity and inherent
trade-offs, and figure things out](/blog/choosing-a-postgres-primary-key)

[![PostgREST v10: EXPLAIN and Improved Relationship Detection
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flw5%2Fpostgrest-v10.png&w=3840&q=100)19
Aug 2022•8 minute readPostgREST v10: EXPLAIN and Improved Relationship
DetectionToday, PostgREST 10 was released. Let's take a look at some of the
new features that go hand in hand with supabase-js v2.](/blog/postgrest-v10)

[![Implementing "seen by" functionality with Postgres
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fseen-by%2Fseen-by-postgresql-
thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)18 Jul 2022•33 minute readImplementing "seen by"
functionality with PostgresDifferent approaches for tracking visitor counts
with PostgreSQL.](/blog/seen-by-in-postgresql)

[![Postgres Auditing in 150 lines of SQL
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fsupa-
audit%2Fpostgres_auditing_in_150_lines_of_SQL.png&w=3840&q=100)8 Mar 2022•13
minute readPostgres Auditing in 150 lines of SQLPostgreSQL has a robust set of
features which we can leverage to create a generic auditing solution in 150
lines of SQL.](/blog/postgres-audit)

[![Protecting reserved roles with PostgreSQL Hooks
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fpostgres-hooks%2Fcover-
postgres-hooks.jpg&w=3840&q=100)2 Jul 2021•14 minute readProtecting reserved
roles with PostgreSQL HooksUsing Postgres Hooks to protect functionality in
your Postgres database.](/blog/roles-postgres-hooks)

[![Developers stay up to date with intheloop.dev
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fintheloop-
supabase.jpg&w=3840&q=100)22 Mar 2021•3 minute readDevelopers stay up to date
with intheloop.devLearn why Kevin is building intheloop.dev with
Supabase](/blog/In-The-Loop)

[![Using Supabase in Replit
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Freplit-og.jpg&w=3840&q=100)11
Mar 2021•4 minute readUsing Supabase in ReplitFree hosted relational database
from within your node.js repl](/blog/using-supabase-replit)

[![Postgres as a CRON Server
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-postgres-
cron.png&w=3840&q=100)5 Mar 2021•8 minute readPostgres as a CRON ServerRunning
repetitive tasks with your Postgres database.](/blog/postgres-as-a-cron-
server)

[![Cracking PostgreSQL Interview Questions
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Felephants.png&w=3840&q=100)27
Feb 2021•7 minute readCracking PostgreSQL Interview QuestionsUnderstand the
top PostgreSQL Interview Questions](/blog/cracking-postgres-interview)

[![Postgres Views thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fblog-
placeholder.png&w=3840&q=100)18 Nov 2020•7 minute readPostgres ViewsCreating
and using a view in PostgreSQL.](/blog/postgresql-views)

[![Continuous PostgreSQL Backups using WAL-G
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fblog-
placeholder.png&w=3840&q=100)2 Aug 2020•6 minute readContinuous PostgreSQL
Backups using WAL-GHave you ever wanted to restore your database's state to a
particular moment in time? This post explains how, using
WAL-G.](/blog/continuous-postgresql-backup-walg)

[![What are PostgreSQL Templates?
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fblog-
placeholder.png&w=3840&q=100)9 Jul 2020•4 minute readWhat are PostgreSQL
Templates?What are PostgreSQL templates and what are they used
for?](/blog/postgresql-templates)

[![Physical vs Logical Backups in PostgreSQL
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fblog-
placeholder.png&w=3840&q=100)7 Jul 2020•5 minute readPhysical vs Logical
Backups in PostgreSQLWhat are physical and logical backups in
Postgres?](/blog/postgresql-physical-logical-backups)

