# [Blog](/blog)/Storage

[![Self-host Maps with Protomaps and Supabase Storage
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fprotomaps_storage%2Fprotomaps_storage_og.png&w=3840&q=100)19
Jun 2024•11 minute readSelf-host Maps with Protomaps and Supabase StorageHost
Protomaps PMTiles on Supabase Storage and render them with MapLibre
GL.](/blog/self-host-maps-storage-protomaps)

[![Supabase Storage: now supports the S3 protocol
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fga-week%2Fs3-compatible-
storage%2Fthumb.png%3Fv%3D2&w=3840&q=100)18 Apr 2024•5 minute readSupabase
Storage: now supports the S3 protocolSupabase Storage is now officially an
S3-Compatible Storage Provider.](/blog/s3-compatible-storage)

[![React Native file upload with Supabase Storage
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2023-08-01-react-native-
storage%2Freact-native-storage.jpg&w=3840&q=100)1 Aug 2023•21 minute readReact
Native file upload with Supabase StorageLearn how to implement authentication
and file upload in a React Native app.](/blog/react-native-storage)

[![Supabase Storage v3: Resumable Uploads with support for 50GB files
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-week-7%2Fday-3-storage-
resumable-uploads%2Fstorage-v3-thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=100)12 Apr 2023•9 minute
readSupabase Storage v3: Resumable Uploads with support for 50GB filesStorage
V3 with lots of new features including resumable uploads, more image
transformationsm a Next.js image loader and more.](/blog/storage-v3-resumable-
uploads)

[![Geo Queries with PostGIS in Ionic Angular
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2023-02-28-geoqueries-
postgis%2Fpostgis-ionic-angular.jpg&w=3840&q=100)1 Mar 2023•32 minute readGeo
Queries with PostGIS in Ionic AngularUsing the PostGIS extension to build a
cross-platform application with Ionic Angular.](/blog/geo-queries-with-
postgis-in-ionic-angular)

[![Supabase Storage v2: Image resizing and Smart CDN
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flw6-storage%2FImage-
resizing.jpg&w=3840&q=100)13 Dec 2022•10 minute readSupabase Storage v2: Image
resizing and Smart CDNWe're introducing new features for Supabase Storage:
Image resizing and a Smart CDN.](/blog/storage-image-resizing-smart-cdn)

[![Supabase Storage now in Beta
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-week-sql-
day-2%2Fsupabase-storage-beta.jpg&w=3840&q=100)27 Jul 2021•9 minute
readSupabase Storage now in BetaSupabase Storage moves into
Beta.](/blog/storage-beta)

[![Supabase CLI thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fcli%2Fcli-
og.jpg&w=3840&q=100)31 Mar 2021•8 minute readSupabase CLILocal development,
database migrations, and self-hosting.](/blog/supabase-cli)

[![Storage is now available in Supabase
thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fstorage%2Fph-1.png&w=3840&q=100)30
Mar 2021•9 minute readStorage is now available in SupabaseLaunching Supabase
Storage and how you can use it in your apps](/blog/supabase-storage)

[![Launch week thumbnail](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-launch-
week.png&w=3840&q=100)25 Mar 2021•6 minute readLaunch weekFive days of
Supabase.](/blog/launch-week)

