[Back](/blog)

[Blog](/blog)

# Launch Week X Community Meetups

05 Dec 2023

â€¢

3 minute read

[![Yuri Santana
avatar](/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FYuriCodes.png&w=96&q=75)Yuri
SantanaDevRel Social Media and Community](https://twitter.com/yuricodesbot)

![Launch Week X Community Meetups](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flwx-
community-meetups%2Fmeetups.jpg&w=3840&q=100)

Supabase has been a remote-first company since we launched in 2020.
Nevertheless, we deeply believe in face-to-face interactions and building
strong bonds with our community.

In our previous Launch Week, we experimented with Community Meetups: in-person
gatherings throughout the world, 100% hosted by the community. In total, there
were meet-ups in 5 countries, and we were blown away by the feedback from the
attendees.

Weâ€™re bringing them back for Launch Week X, and making them even better.

## Upcoming LWX Community Meetups#

This time weâ€™re hosting more meetups, in more cities and more countries:

  * ðŸ‡ºðŸ‡¸ San Francisco, USA [[Event](https://lu.ma/iffhmu3u)]
  * ðŸ‡ºðŸ‡¸ NYC, USA [[Event](https://lu.ma/68chgz3c)]
  * ðŸ‡°ðŸ‡· Seoul, South Korea [[Event](https://www.meetup.com/seoul-ios-meetup/events/297652955/)]
  * ðŸ‡¯ðŸ‡µ Tokyo, Japan [[Event](https://serverless.connpass.com/event/302761/)]
  * ðŸ‡¬ðŸ‡§ London, United Kingdom [[Event](https://lu.ma/u7bdeqvq)]
  * ðŸ‡¸ðŸ‡¬ Singapore [[Event](https://lu.ma/qxlg58go)]
  * ðŸ‡°ðŸ‡ª Mombasa, Kenya [[Event](https://lu.ma/0sdtwqck)]
  * ðŸ‡¨ðŸ‡¦ Vancouver, Canada [[Event](https://lu.ma/supavandevdojo)]

Coming soon:

  * India, Hyderabad
  * Ireland, Dublin
  * Italy, Milan

Each event has limited spots, make sure to register before it fills up!

## Behind the scenes: organizing global meetups#

At Supabase, we believe in the power of community-driven initiatives. Our
meetups are proudly hosted by community members like you! We act as
facilitators, assisting in finding a venue, offering guidance, and providing
necessary resources. The rest? It's entirely up to the hostâ€™s creative and
community-driven spirit.

Of course, planning global events can be a bit of a puzzle. But to make it
more of a breeze and a good time for all, we've taken the learnings from our
previous experience and our experience with remote and async communication and
crafted practical guidelines that shape our approach:

**Default to action**

When presented with the idea of co-hosting an event, we proposed various ideas
but ultimately allowed the global hosts to decide the event's nature and
format. Some opted for a traditional structure with presentations and Q&As,
while others preferred a more laid-back social hangout style.

This not only simplified the process but also ensured that the events
reflected the diverse preferences and interests within our community.

**Egoless and teamwork**

Sometimes, things happen. The willingness to do the maintenance and tweaking
of event details, and reach out to sponsors or even attendees is some of the
hard work behind every event.

The initiative shown by the community resembles what we do at Supabase,
serving as a constant reminder that the efficacy of collaborative Open Source
is unbeatable.

**Effectiveness when working asynchronously**

Last time, we had 5 confirmed locations; this time around, we have 8 locations
confirmed and a couple more in the works! With so many time zones, the process
would've been hindered if depended on meetings. This incredible work done by
the hosts demonstrates that location or time zones are no longer limitations.

## Conclusion#

In this post, we unveiled the locations of the LWX Community meetups and
offered a glimpse into the collaborative approach we used to organize them.

Hope to see you at any of our meetups! If you make it, be sure to soak in the
experience and share your favorite moments on social media!

[Launch Week ![Supabase Launch Week X
icon](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Flwx%2Flogos%2Flwx_logo.svg&w=32&q=75)](/launch-
week)

11-15 Dec

Main Stage

[Day 1 -Supabase Studio: introducing an **AI Assistant** , **Postgres roles**
, and **user impersonation**](/blog/studio-introducing-assistant)[ Day 2 -Edge
Functions: **Node** and native **npm** compatibility](/blog/edge-functions-
node-npm)[Day 3 -Introducing Supabase **Branching** , a Postgres database for
every pull request](/blog/supabase-branching)[Day 4 -Supabase Auth: **Identity
Linking** , **Session Control** , **Password Protection** and
**Hooks**](/blog/supabase-auth-identity-linking-hooks)[ Day 5 -Introducing
**Read Replicas** for low latency](/blog/introducing-read-replicas)

Build Stage

[01 -Supabase Album](https://supabase.productions/)[02 -Postgres Language
Server](/blog/postgres-language-server-implementing-parser)[03 -Design at
Supabase](/blog/how-design-works-at-supabase)[04 -Supabase
Grafana](https://github.com/supabase/supabase-grafana)[05 -pg_graphql:
Postgres functions](/blog/pg-graphql-postgres-functions)[06 -PostgREST
12](/blog/postgrest-12)[07 -Supavisor 1.0](/blog/supavisor-postgres-
connection-pooler)[08 -Supabase Wrappers v0.2](/blog/supabase-wrappers-v02)[09
-Supabase Libraries V2](/blog/client-libraries-v2)[10 -Supabase x
Fly.io](/blog/postgres-on-fly-by-supabase)[11 -Top 10 Launches of
LWX](/blog/launch-week-x-best-launches)[Supabase Launch Week X
Hackathon](/blog/supabase-hackathon-lwx)[Supabase Launch Week X Community
Meetups](/blog/community-meetups-lwx)

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fcommunity-
meetups-
lwx&text=Launch%20Week%20X%20Community%20Meetups)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fcommunity-
meetups-
lwx&text=Launch%20Week%20X%20Community%20Meetups)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fcommunity-
meetups-lwx&t=Launch%20Week%20X%20Community%20Meetups)

[Last postSupabase Beta November 20235 December 2023](/blog/beta-update-
november-2023)

[Next postSupabase Launch Week X Hackathon5 December 2023](/blog/supabase-
hackathon-lwx)

[launch-week](/blog/tags/launch-week)

On this page

  * Upcoming LWX Community Meetups
  * Behind the scenes: organizing global meetups
  * Conclusion

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fcommunity-
meetups-
lwx&text=Launch%20Week%20X%20Community%20Meetups)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fcommunity-
meetups-
lwx&text=Launch%20Week%20X%20Community%20Meetups)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fcommunity-
meetups-lwx&t=Launch%20Week%20X%20Community%20Meetups)

## Build in a weekend, scale to millions

[Start your project](https://supabase.com/dashboard)[Request a
demo](/contact/sales)

