[Back](/blog)

[Blog](/blog)

# Infinite scroll with Next.js, Framer Motion, and Supabase

04 Apr 2023

â€¢

13 minute read

[![Francesco Sansalvadore
avatar](/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Ffsansalvadore.png&w=96&q=75)Francesco
SansalvadoreEngineering](https://github.com/fsansalvadore)

![Infinite scroll with Next.js, Framer Motion, and
Supabase](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Finfinite-scroll-
thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=100)

Imagine you generated a bunch of tickets for the Supabase [Launch
Week](https://www.supabase.com/launch-week/7) and you wanted to display them
all on [one page](https://supabase.com/launch-week/7/tickets). It might take a
while to load them all in one go, so a great solution to this would be to lazy
load smaller subsets while the user scrolls, with a technique called infinite
scrolling.

An infinite scroll allows you to scroll through your content endlessly while
only loading the data you need as you need it. This improves performance while
also creating a smooth and delightful user experience.

In this post, we'll go through the steps of how to create an infinite scroll
using NextJs, Supabase, and Framer Motion.

## What is infinite scroll?#

Infinite scroll is a web design technique that automatically loads and
displays new content as a user scrolls down a web page. This creates an
endless scrolling experience that eliminates the need for pagination and
provides a seamless and uninterrupted browsing experience.

Infinite scroll can enhance user experience and engagement by providing a
fluid and intuitive browsing experience. It also allows for faster content
delivery. By dynamically loading and displaying content as needed, infinite
scroll can reduce the time and effort required to load pages and deliver
content, improving overall performance and user satisfaction.

Next.js is a great choice for implementing infinite scroll in a web
application. It provides server-side rendering and automatic code splitting,
which can improve performance and optimize the loading of content as the user
scrolls down the page. It also includes built-in support for dynamic imports
and lazy loading, which can be useful for fetching and displaying content as
needed.

Plus, incremental static regeneration (ISR) and pre-fetching of data can
further improve performance by enabling the server to generate and cache pages
in advance, and to pre-fetch data as the user scrolls down the page.

Now, onto the code!

## Step 0. Load the first batch#

First things first, let's install the dependencies we'll need.

`  

_10

npm install @supabase/supabase-js lodash framer-motion

  
`

Set up the supabase-js client and fetch the first 20 tickets through
`getServerSideProps` so we don't start with an empty screen.

We'll assume our table in the db is called `my_tickets_table`.

`  

_29

import { useEffect, useState } from 'react'

_29

import { createClient } from '@supabase/supabase-js'

_29

_29

const supabase = createClient('supabase-url', 'supabase-key')

_29

_29

export default function TicketsPage({ tickets }) {

_29

const [loadedTickets, setLoadedTickets] = useState(tickets)

_29

_29

return (

_29

<div>

_29

{loadedTickets.map((ticket, index) => (

_29

{/* We'll get to this part later */}

_29

))}

_29

</div>

_29

)

_29

_29

export const getServerSideProps: GetServerSideProps = async ({ req, res }) =>
{

_29

const { data: tickets } = await supabase!

_29

.from('my_tickets_table')

_29

.select('*')

_29

.order('createdAt', { ascending: false })

_29

.limit(20)

_29

_29

return {

_29

props: {

_29

tickets,

_29

},

_29

}

_29

}

  
`

## Step 1. Listen to the scroll#

To detect if the user is scrolling we can listen to the window `scroll` event.

If you try to `console.log()` the event returned in the listener callback,
you'll notice that it fires on every single pixel scrolled. We want to avoid
triggering like crazy, so we'll use a [lodash debounce
function](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/lodash-_-debounce-method/) to limit
how often we call this event to once every 200 milliseconds.

Here's what it looks like:

`  

_14

import { useEffect } from 'react'

_14

import { debounce } from 'lodash'

_14

_14

const handleScroll = () => {

_14

// Do stuff when scrolling

_14

}

_14

_14

useEffect(() => {

_14

const handleDebouncedScroll = debounce(() => handleScroll(), 200)

_14

window.addEventListener('scroll', handleDebouncedScroll)

_14

return () => {

_14

window.removeEventListener('scroll', handleDebouncedScroll)

_14

}

_14

}, [])

  
`

## Step 2. Check if the container intersects the viewport#

Next, we want to check if the bottom of the tickets container intersects with
the bottom of the viewport. We can use the `getBoundingClientRect` method to
get the position of the container and then compare it with the height of the
viewport.

`  

_24

import { useRef, useState } from 'react'

_24

_24

// ...

_24

_24

const containerRef = useRef(null)

_24

const [offset, setOffset] = useState(1)

_24

const [isInView, setIsInView] = useState(false)

_24

_24

const handleScroll = (container) => {

_24

if (containerRef.current && typeof window !== 'undefined') {

_24

const container = containerRef.current

_24

const { bottom } = container.getBoundingClientRect()

_24

const { innerHeight } = window

_24

setIsInView((prev) => bottom <= innerHeight)

_24

}

_24

}

_24

_24

useEffect(() => {

_24

if (isInView) {

_24

loadMoreUsers(offset)

_24

}

_24

}, [isInView])

_24

_24

return <div ref={containerRef}>{/* List of loaded tickets */}</div>

  
`

## Step 3. Load tickets based on the offset#

Now we can load more tickets based on the current offset. We'll use the
[range](https://supabase.com/docs/reference/javascript/range) method from the
supabase-js library to easily work with the pagination logic.

`  

_37

export default function TicketsPage() {

_37

const PAGE_COUNT = 20

_37

const [offset, setOffset] = useState(1)

_37

const [isLoading, setIsLoading] = useState(false)

_37

const [isInView, setIsInView] = useState(false)

_37

_37

useEffect(() => {

_37

if (isInView) {

_37

loadMoreTickets(offset)

_37

}

_37

}, [isInView])

_37

_37

const loadMoreTickets = async (offset: number) => {

_37

setIsLoading(true)

_37

// Every time we fetch, we want to increase

_37

// the offset to load fresh tickets

_37

setOffset((prev) => prev + 1)

_37

const { data: newTickets } = await fetchTickets(offset, PAGE_COUNT)

_37

// Merge new tickets with all previously loaded

_37

setLoadedTickets((prevTickets) => [...prevTickets, ...newTickets])

_37

setIsLoading(false)

_37

}

_37

_37

const fetchTickets = async (offset, limit) => {

_37

const from = offset * PAGE_COUNT

_37

const to = from + PAGE_COUNT - 1

_37

_37

const { data } = await supabase!

_37

.from('my_tickets_table')

_37

.select('*')

_37

.range(from, to)

_37

.order('createdAt', { ascending: false })

_37

_37

_37

return data

_37

}

_37

}

  
`

## Step 4. Animate the tickets#

Now that we have our tickets loaded, we want to add some animation to make
them pop like dominos as they appear on the screen. For this, we're going to
use the [Framer Motion](https://www.framer.com/motion/) library.

We'll wrap each ticket in a motion component and add a transition effect to
stagger their appearance on the screen:

`  

_26

import { motion } from 'framer-motion'

_26

_26

// ...

_26

_26

{

_26

loadedTickets.map((ticket, index) => {

_26

// each ticket will be delayed based on it's index

_26

// but we need to subtract the delay from all the previously loaded tickets

_26

const recalculatedDelay = i >= PAGE_COUNT * 2 ? (i - PAGE_COUNT * (offset -
1)) / 15 : i / 15

_26

_26

return (

_26

<motion.div

_26

key={ticket.id}

_26

initial={{ opacity: 0, y: 20 }}

_26

animate={{ opacity: 1, y: 0 }}

_26

transition={{

_26

duration: 0.4,

_26

ease: [0.25, 0.25, 0, 1],

_26

delay: recalculatedDelay,

_26

}}

_26

>

_26

{/* Actual ticket component */}

_26

</motion.div>

_26

)

_26

})

_26

}

  
`

With this code, each ticket will start with an opacity of 0 and a y position
of 20. As it animates into view, it will fade in and move up to its final
position. The delay for each ticket will be based on its index in the array,
creating a nice staggered effect.

## Step 5. Stop listening when finished#

Once all the tickets have been loaded, we want to stop listening to the scroll
event to avoid unnecessary requests. We can do this by setting a state
variable called `isLast` to true whenever the length of the response will be
less than `PAGE_COUNT`:

`  

_10

if (newTickets.length < PAGE_COUNT) {

_10

setIsLast(true)

_10

}

  
`

We'll use this code to conditionally remove the event listener:

`  

_10

useEffect(() => {

_10

const handleDebouncedScroll = debounce(() => !isLast && handleScroll(), 200)

_10

window.addEventListener('scroll', handleScroll)

_10

return () => {

_10

window.removeEventListener('scroll', handleScroll)

_10

}

_10

}, [])

  
`

Now, when the `isLast` state variable is true, the event listener will be
removed and the component will stop listening to the scroll event.

## Wrap up#

That's it! We hope this post enabled you to build the next awesome infinite
scroll.

Here's the complete code:

`  

_98

import { useEffect, useState, useRef } from 'react'

_98

import { createClient } from '@supabase/supabase-js'

_98

import { debounce } from 'lodash'

_98

import { motion } from 'framer-motion'

_98

_98

const supabase = createClient('supabase-url', 'supabase-key')

_98

_98

export default function TicketsPage({ tickets }) {

_98

const PAGE_COUNT = 20

_98

const containerRef = useRef(null)

_98

const [loadedTickets, setLoadedTickets] = useState(tickets)

_98

const [offset, setOffset] = useState(1)

_98

const [isLoading, setIsLoading] = useState(false)

_98

const [isInView, setIsInView] = useState(false)

_98

_98

const handleScroll = (container) => {

_98

if (containerRef.current && typeof window !== 'undefined') {

_98

const container = containerRef.current

_98

const { bottom } = container.getBoundingClientRect()

_98

const { innerHeight } = window

_98

setIsInView((prev) => bottom <= innerHeight)

_98

}

_98

}

_98

_98

useEffect(() => {

_98

const handleDebouncedScroll = debounce(() => !isLast && handleScroll(), 200)

_98

window.addEventListener('scroll', handleScroll)

_98

return () => {

_98

window.removeEventListener('scroll', handleScroll)

_98

}

_98

}, [])

_98

_98

useEffect(() => {

_98

if (isInView) {

_98

loadMoreTickets(offset)

_98

}

_98

}, [isInView])

_98

_98

const loadMoreTickets = async (offset: number) => {

_98

setIsLoading(true)

_98

setOffset((prev) => prev + 1)

_98

const { data: newTickets } = await fetchTickets(offset, PAGE_COUNT)

_98

setLoadedTickets((prevTickets) => [...prevTickets, ...newTickets])

_98

setIsLoading(false)

_98

}

_98

_98

const fetchTickets = async (offset) => {

_98

const from = offset * PAGE_COUNT

_98

const to = from + PAGE_COUNT - 1

_98

_98

const { data } = await supabase!

_98

.from('my_tickets_table')

_98

.select('*')

_98

.range(from, to)

_98

.order('createdAt', { ascending: false })

_98

_98

return data

_98

}

_98

_98

return (

_98

<div ref={containerRef}>

_98

{

_98

loadedTickets.map((ticket, index) => {

_98

const recalculatedDelay =

_98

i >= PAGE_COUNT * 2 ? (i - PAGE_COUNT * (offset - 1)) / 15 : i / 15

_98

_98

return (

_98

<motion.div

_98

key={ticket.id}

_98

initial={{ opacity: 0, y: 20 }}

_98

animate={{ opacity: 1, y: 0 }}

_98

transition={{

_98

duration: 0.4,

_98

ease: [0.25, 0.25, 0, 1],

_98

delay: recalculatedDelay,

_98

}}

_98

>

_98

{/* Actual ticket component */}

_98

</motion.div>

_98

)

_98

})

_98

}

_98

</div>

_98

)

_98

_98

export const getServerSideProps: GetServerSideProps = async ({ req, res }) =>
{

_98

const { data: tickets } = await supabase!

_98

.from('my_tickets_table')

_98

.select('*')

_98

.order('createdAt', { ascending: false })

_98

.limit(20)

_98

_98

return {

_98

props: {

_98

tickets,

_98

},

_98

}

_98

}

  
`

If you also want to feature in the endless tickets page and have a chance to
win cool swag, you're invited to [generate your unique
ticket](https://www.supabase.com/launch-week) until April 16th.

See you at Launch Week! ðŸ‘‹

### More Launch Week 7

[Designing with
AI![](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Fseven%2Fday0%2Fai-
images%2F00-ai-images-thumb.png&w=3840&q=75)](/blog/designing-with-ai-
midjourney)

[Supavisor![](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Fseven%2Fday0%2Fsupavisor%2Fsupavisor-
thumb.png&w=3840&q=75)](https://github.com/supabase/supavisor)

[Open Source
Logging![](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Fseven%2Fday1%2Fself-
hosted-logs-thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=75)](/blog/supabase-logs-self-hosted)

[Self-hosted Deno Edge
Functions![](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Fseven%2Fday2%2Fself-
hosted-edge-functions-thumb.png&w=3840&q=75)](/blog/edge-runtime-self-hosted-
deno-functions)

[Storage v3: Resumable Uploads with support for 50GB
files![](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Fseven%2Fday3%2Fstorage-v3-thumb.png&w=3840&q=75)](/blog/storage-v3-resumable-
uploads)

[Supabase Auth: SSO, Mobile, and Server-side
support![](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Fseven%2Fday4%2Fsso-
support-thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=75)](/blog/supabase-auth-sso-pkce)

[Community
Highlight![](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Fseven%2Fday5%2Fcommunity%2Fcommunity-
thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=75)](/blog/launch-week-7-community-highlights)

[Studio
Updates![](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Fseven%2Fday5%2Fstudio%2Fstudio-
thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=75)](/blog/supabase-studio-2.0)

[dbdev![](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Fseven%2Fday5%2Fone-more-
thing%2Fdbdev-thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=75)](/blog/dbdev)

[Postgres TLE![](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Fseven%2Fday5%2Fone-
more-thing%2FpgTLE-thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=75)](/blog/pg-tle)

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Finfinite-
scroll-with-nextjs-framer-
motion&text=Infinite%20scroll%20with%20Next.js%2C%20Framer%20Motion%2C%20and%20Supabase)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Finfinite-
scroll-with-nextjs-framer-
motion&text=Infinite%20scroll%20with%20Next.js%2C%20Framer%20Motion%2C%20and%20Supabase)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Finfinite-
scroll-with-nextjs-framer-
motion&t=Infinite%20scroll%20with%20Next.js%2C%20Framer%20Motion%2C%20and%20Supabase)

[Last postThe Supabase AI Hackathon7 April 2023](/blog/launch-
week-7-hackathon)

[Next postSupaClub1 April 2023](/blog/supaclub)

[tutorial](/blog/tags/tutorial)[launch-week](/blog/tags/launch-
week)[Next.js](/blog/tags/Next.js)

On this page

  * What is infinite scroll?
  * Step 0. Load the first batch
  * Step 1. Listen to the scroll
  * Step 2. Check if the container intersects the viewport
  * Step 3. Load tickets based on the offset
  * Step 4. Animate the tickets
  * Step 5. Stop listening when finished
  * Wrap up

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Finfinite-
scroll-with-nextjs-framer-
motion&text=Infinite%20scroll%20with%20Next.js%2C%20Framer%20Motion%2C%20and%20Supabase)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Finfinite-
scroll-with-nextjs-framer-
motion&text=Infinite%20scroll%20with%20Next.js%2C%20Framer%20Motion%2C%20and%20Supabase)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Finfinite-
scroll-with-nextjs-framer-
motion&t=Infinite%20scroll%20with%20Next.js%2C%20Framer%20Motion%2C%20and%20Supabase)

## Build in a weekend, scale to millions

[Start your project](https://supabase.com/dashboard)[Request a
demo](/contact/sales)

