[Back](/blog)

[Blog](/blog)

# The Supabase AI Hackathon

07 Apr 2023

â€¢

4 minute read

[![Tyler Shukert
avatar](/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fdshukertjr.png&w=96&q=75)Tyler
ShukertDevRel](https://twitter.com/dshukertjr)

![The Supabase AI
Hackathon](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flw7-hackathon%2Fthumbnail.png&w=3840&q=100)

With Easter just around the corner, [Launch Week](https://supabase.com/launch-
week) is about to start and, as usual, we're running an async hackathon
alongside it. This time itâ€™s AI-themed!

The hackathon starts **now** and ends Sunday 16th April at 11:59 pm. You can
win extremely limited edition Launch Week themed mechanical keyboards and
limited edition Supabase swag.

For some inspiration check out the [Next.js OpenAI Doc Search
template](https://github.com/supabase-community/nextjs-openai-doc-
search?og=v2) released yesterday and [storing embeddings on Supabase
article](https://supabase.com/blog/openai-embeddings-postgres-vector).

Additionally, you can see all the [winners from previous
hackathons](https://supabase.com/blog/tags/hackathon).

## Key Facts#

  * You have 10 days to build a new **Open Source** project using Supabase in some capacity.
    * Starting 6:00 am PT Friday 7th April 2023
    * The submission deadline is 11:59 pm Sunday midnight PT 16th April 2023
  * Enter as an individual, or as a team of up to 5 people
  * Build whatever you want - a project, app, tool, library, or anything

## Prizes#

There are 5 categories, there will be prizes for:

  * Best overall project (Mechanical Keyboards & Swag kit)
  * Best use of AI (Swag kit)
  * Most fun / best easter egg (Swag kit)
  * Most technically impressive (Swag kit)
  * Most visually pleasing (Swag kit)

There will be a winner and a runner-up prize for each category. Every team
member on winning/runner-up teams gets a Supabase Launch Week swag kit.

## Submission#

You should submit your project using [this
form](https://www.madewithsupabase.com/launch-week-7) before 11:59 pm Sunday
midnight PT 16th April 2023. Extra points if you include a simple video
demoing the app in the description.

## Judges#

The Supabase team will judge the winners for each category. We will be looking
for:

  * creativity/inventiveness
  * functions correctly/smoothly
  * visually pleasing
  * technically impressive
  * use of Supabase features
    * deep usage of a single feature or
    * broad usage are both ok
  * FUN! ðŸ˜ƒ

## Rules#

  * Team size 1-5 (all team members on winning teams will receive a prize)
  * You cannot be on multiple teams
  * One submission per team
  * It's not a requirement to use AI, it's just a theme
  * All design elements, code, etc. for your project must be created **during** the event
  * All entries must be Open Source (link to source code required in entry)
  * Must use Supabase in some capacity
  * Can be any language or framework
  * You must submit before the deadline (no late entries)
  * (optional) Include a link to a demo video along with the submission for extra points

## Resources#

### Supabase resources to get you started#

  * [OpenAI with Edge Functions YouTube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=29p8kIqyU_Y)
  * [Streaming Data in Edge Functions](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9N66JBRLNYU)
  * [Storing OpenAI embeddings in Postgres with pgvector article](https://supabase.com/blog/openai-embeddings-postgres-vector)
  * [pgvector guide](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/database/extensions/pgvector)

### Community help#

The Supabase Team will be taking part in the Hackathon and you'll find us live
to build in our discord all week. Please join us by building in public:

  * Text channel: [#hackathon](https://discord.gg/UYyweApy)
  * Audio channel: [#hackathon](https://discord.gg/Vj3mTPwH)

If you need help or advice when building, find other people to join your team,
or if you just want to chill and watch people build, come and join us!

[Join our Discord](https://discord.supabase.com/)

## Launch Week#

Don't forget to check out the new features being announced as part of [Launch
Week](https://supabase.com/launch-week).

  * [Previous Hackathon Prize Winners](https://supabase.com/blog/launch-week-6-hackathon-winners)

## Additional Info#

  * Any intellectual property developed during the hackathon will belong to the team that developed it. We expect that each team will have an agreement between themselves regarding the IP, but this is not required
  * By making a submission you grant Supabase permission to use screenshots, code snippets, and/or links to your project or content of your README on our Twitter, blog, website, email updates, and in the Supabase discord server. Supabase does not make any claims over your IP.

### More Launch Week 7

[Designing with
AI![](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Fseven%2Fday0%2Fai-
images%2F00-ai-images-thumb.png&w=3840&q=75)](/blog/designing-with-ai-
midjourney)

[Supavisor![](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Fseven%2Fday0%2Fsupavisor%2Fsupavisor-
thumb.png&w=3840&q=75)](https://github.com/supabase/supavisor)

[Open Source
Logging![](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Fseven%2Fday1%2Fself-
hosted-logs-thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=75)](/blog/supabase-logs-self-hosted)

[Self-hosted Deno Edge
Functions![](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Fseven%2Fday2%2Fself-
hosted-edge-functions-thumb.png&w=3840&q=75)](/blog/edge-runtime-self-hosted-
deno-functions)

[Storage v3: Resumable Uploads with support for 50GB
files![](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Fseven%2Fday3%2Fstorage-v3-thumb.png&w=3840&q=75)](/blog/storage-v3-resumable-
uploads)

[Supabase Auth: SSO, Mobile, and Server-side
support![](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Fseven%2Fday4%2Fsso-
support-thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=75)](/blog/supabase-auth-sso-pkce)

[Community
Highlight![](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Fseven%2Fday5%2Fcommunity%2Fcommunity-
thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=75)](/blog/launch-week-7-community-highlights)

[Studio
Updates![](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Fseven%2Fday5%2Fstudio%2Fstudio-
thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=75)](/blog/supabase-studio-2.0)

[dbdev![](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Fseven%2Fday5%2Fone-more-
thing%2Fdbdev-thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=75)](/blog/dbdev)

[Postgres TLE![](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flaunchweek%2Fseven%2Fday5%2Fone-
more-thing%2FpgTLE-thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=75)](/blog/pg-tle)

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-7-hackathon&text=The%20Supabase%20AI%20Hackathon)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-7-hackathon&text=The%20Supabase%20AI%20Hackathon)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-7-hackathon&t=The%20Supabase%20AI%20Hackathon)

[Last postDesigning with AI: Generating unique artwork for every user7 April
2023](/blog/designing-with-ai-midjourney)

[Next postInfinite scroll with Next.js, Framer Motion, and Supabase4 April
2023](/blog/infinite-scroll-with-nextjs-framer-motion)

[launch-week](/blog/tags/launch-week)[hackathon](/blog/tags/hackathon)

On this page

  * Key Facts
  * Prizes
  * Submission
  * Judges
  * Rules
  * Resources
  * Launch Week
  * Additional Info

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-7-hackathon&text=The%20Supabase%20AI%20Hackathon)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-7-hackathon&text=The%20Supabase%20AI%20Hackathon)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-7-hackathon&t=The%20Supabase%20AI%20Hackathon)

## Build in a weekend, scale to millions

[Start your project](https://supabase.com/dashboard)[Request a
demo](/contact/sales)

