[Back](/blog)

[Blog](/blog)

# Top 10 Launches of Launch Week 12

16 Aug 2024

â€¢

3 minute read

[![Paul Copplestone
avatar](/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fkiwicopple.png&w=96&q=75)Paul
CopplestoneCEO and Co-Founder](https://github.com/kiwicopple)

![Top 10 Launches of Launch Week
12](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flw12%2Fday-5%2Fthumb_top-10-lw.png&w=3840&q=100)

There's always a lot to cover in Launch Weeks. Here are the top 10, ranked by
my own statistical reasoning.

### #10 Snaplet is now open source#

Snaplet is now closed, but their source code is open. They are releasing 3
tools under the MIT license for copying data, seeding databases, and taking
database snapshots.

[Read more.](/blog/snaplet-is-now-open-source)

### #9 pg_replicate#

Use pg_replicate to copy data (full table copies and CDC) from Postgres to any
other data system. Today it supports BigQuery, DuckDb, and MotherDuck, with
more sinks will be added in future.

[See it on HackerNews.](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41209994)

### #8 vec2pg#

A new CLI utility for migrating data from vector databases to Supabase, or any
Postgres instance with [pgvector](https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector). Today
it works with Pinecone and Qdrant - more will be added in future.

[Read more.](/blog/vec2pg)

### #7 Official Supabase extension for VS Code and GitHub Copilot#

We launched a new GitHub Copilot extension for VS Code to make your
development with Supabase and VS Code even more delightful.

[Read more.](/blog/github-copilot-extension-for-vs-code)

### #6 Python official support#

Python libs are now officially supported in Supabase. We've seen a huge rise
in Python developers (and contributors) driven mostly by AI and ML, and this
will make it easier for them to use Supabase.

[Read more.](/blog/python-support)

### #5 We released Log Drains#

We released Log Drains so that developers can export logs generated by their
Supabase products to external destinations, such as Datadog or custom HTTP
endpoints.

[Read more.](/blog/log-drains)

### #4 Realtime: Broadcast and Presence Authorization#

We added authorization for Realtime's Broadcast and Presence. You write RLS
Policies to allow or deny clients' access to your Broadcast and Presence
Channels.

[Read more.](/blog/supabase-realtime-broadcast-and-presence-authorization)

### #3 Auth: Bring-your-own Auth0, Cognito, or Firebase#

This was actually a few different announcements: support for third-party Auth
providers; Phone-based Multi-factor Authentication (SMS and Whatsapp); and new
Auth Hooks for SMS and email.

[Read more.](/blog/third-party-auth-mfa-phone-send-hooks)

### #2 Build Postgres Wrappers with Wasm#

Today we're releasing support for [Wasm
(WebAssembly)](https://webassembly.org/) Foreign Data Wrapper. With this
feature, anyone can create a FDW and share it with the Supabase community. You
can build Postgres interfaces to anything on the internet.

[Read more.](/blog/postgres-foreign-data-wrappers-with-wasm)

### #1: postgres.new: In-browser Postgres with an AI interface#

[postgres.new](https://postgres.new/) is an in-browser Postgres sandbox with
AI assistance. With postgres.new, you can instantly spin up an unlimited
number of Postgres databases that run directly in your browser (and soon,
deploy them to S3).

## One more thing: a Supabase Book#

There's now an entire book written about Supabase. [David
Lorenz](https://x.com/activenode) spent a year working on it and we think it's
one of the most thorough Supabase resources on the internet. If you're
interested in leveling up your Supabase skills, you can support David and
[purchase the book here](https://supa.guide).

[Read more.](/blog/supabase-book-by-david-lorenz)

[Launch Week12](/launch-week)

12-16 August

[Day 1 -postgres.new: In-browser Postgres with an AI
interface](/blog/postgres-new)[Day 2 -Realtime Broadcast and Presence
Authorization](/blog/supabase-realtime-broadcast-and-presence-
authorization)[Day 3 -Supabase Auth: Bring-your-own Auth0, Cognito, or
Firebase](/blog/third-party-auth-mfa-phone-send-hooks)[Day 4 -Introducing Log
Drains](/blog/log-drains)[Day 5 -Postgres Foreign Data Wrappers with
Wasm](/blog/postgres-foreign-data-wrappers-with-wasm)

Build Stage

[01 -GitHub Copilot](/blog/github-copilot-extension-for-vs-code)[02
-pg_replicate](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41209994)[03 -Snaplet is
now open source](/blog/snaplet-is-now-open-source)[04 -Supabase
Book](/blog/supabase-book-by-david-lorenz)[05
-PostgREST](/blog/postgrest-12-2)[06 -vec2pg](/blog/vec2pg)[07
-pg_graphql](/blog/pg-graphql-1-5-7)[08 -Platform Access
Control](/blog/platform-access-control)[09 -python-support](/blog/python-
support)[10 -Launch Week Summary](/blog/launch-week-12-top-10)[Community
Meetups](/launch-week#meetups)

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-12-top-10&text=Top%2010%20Launches%20of%20Launch%20Week%2012)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-12-top-10&text=Top%2010%20Launches%20of%20Launch%20Week%2012)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-12-top-10&t=Top%2010%20Launches%20of%20Launch%20Week%2012)

[Last postMozilla Llamafile in Supabase Edge Functions21 August
2024](/blog/mozilla-llamafile-in-supabase-edge-functions)

[Next postIntroducing New Platform Access Control16 August
2024](/blog/platform-access-control)

[launch-week](/blog/tags/launch-week)

On this page

  * #10 Snaplet is now open source
  * #9 pg_replicate
  * #8 vec2pg
  * #7 Official Supabase extension for VS Code and GitHub Copilot
  * #6 Python official support
  * #5 We released Log Drains
  * #4 Realtime: Broadcast and Presence Authorization
  * #3 Auth: Bring-your-own Auth0, Cognito, or Firebase
  * #2 Build Postgres Wrappers with Wasm
  * #1: postgres.new: In-browser Postgres with an AI interface

  * One more thing: a Supabase Book

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-12-top-10&text=Top%2010%20Launches%20of%20Launch%20Week%2012)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-12-top-10&text=Top%2010%20Launches%20of%20Launch%20Week%2012)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-12-top-10&t=Top%2010%20Launches%20of%20Launch%20Week%2012)

## Build in a weekend, scale to millions

[Start your project](https://supabase.com/dashboard)[Request a
demo](/contact/sales)

