[Back](/blog)

[Blog](/blog)

# Launch Week 5 Hackathon Winners

25 Aug 2022

•

5 minute read

[![Tyler Shukert
avatar](/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fdshukertjr.png&w=96&q=75)Tyler
ShukertDevRel](https://twitter.com/dshukertjr)

![Launch Week 5 Hackathon
Winners](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flw5-hackathon-winners%2Flaunch-
week-5-hackathon-winners.jpeg&w=3840&q=100)

During [Launch Week 5](https://supabase.com/launch-week), we shipped a lot of
features, which was exciting, but what is more exciting is reviewing all the
awesome hackathon submissions you all created for [Launch Week 5
Hackathon!](https://supabase.com/blog/launch-week-5-hackathon)

It is always tough to pick the winner, but this time around it was extra hard
because of the amount of incredible projects: there were 46 submitted
projects, making this our most popular hackathon yet. You will be able to view
all of the submissions of this hackathon on
[madewithsupabase.com](https://www.madewithsupabase.com/).

And now, without further ado, congratulations to the winners of Supabase
Launch Week 5 Hackathon!

## Best Overall Project#

### Winner#

[Supabase Cache Helpers](https://github.com/psteinroe/supabase-cache-helpers)
\- by [@psteinroe](https://twitter.com/psteinroe).

Supabase Cache Helpers is a caching utility library that works by turning your
Supabase query into cache keys and provides methods for retrieving and
mutating data on your Supabase database.

### Runner Up#

[Super UI](https://github.com/pheralb/superui) \- by [Pablo
Hdez](https://twitter.com/pheralb_), [Nacho
Aldama](https://twitter.com/srdrabx), [David
Huertas](https://twitter.com/ikurotime) and [Juan
Rojas](https://twitter.com/tmchein)

Super UI is a React UI component library for React, but it also lets you
customize and create your own components from your browser.

## Most Visually Pleasing#

### Winner#

[Hop - A Tinder-like job board app](https://github.com/taishikato/hop) \- by
[@taishikato](https://twitter.com/taishik_)

Hop is a Tinder-like job board app that you can hit the button or arrow keys
to decide to pass or add it to your favourite job posting list.

### Runner Up#

[Vesta](https://www.github.com/n4ze3m/vesta) \- by
[@n4ze3m](https://twitter.com/n4ze3m)

Vesta is an open source Google Keep alternative that helps you to save notes
and links without any hassle.

## Most Technically Impressive#

### Winner#

[Otentik Authenticator](https://github.com/riipandi/otentik-authenticator-
desktop) \- by [@riipandi](https://twitter.com/riipandi)

Otentik is a security desktop app to manage your 2-step verification tokens
when logging into your online services so that you can complete your login
flow within your computer.

### Runner Up#

[Stripe Sync](https://github.com/lawrencecchen/stripe-sync) \- by
[@lawrencecchen](https://github.com/lawrencecchen)

Stripe Sync allows you to automatically sync your stripe data into your
Supabase database using Edge Functions.

## Most Fun/Interesting#

### Winner#

[That Hot Dog Game](https://github.com/laznic/hotdogs) \- by
[@laznic](https://twitter.com/laznic)

Play a classic hot dog eating contest with your friends! That Hot Dog Game
uses facial recognition to detect “eating” and whoever can eat the most hot
dogs in a given time wins!

### Runner Up#

[Quizgrad (Quiz App)](https://github.com/mehulsatardekar/Quizgrad) \- by
[Mehul Satardekar](https://twitter.com/MehulSatardekar)

Quizgrad is a fun quiz app where you can compete against other players on
quizzes from different categories.

## Best Flutter Project#

### Winner#

[Quid Faciam Hodie?](https://github.com/Myzel394/quid_faciam_hodie) \- by
[@Myzel394](https://github.com/Myzel394)

Quid Faciam Hodie? (in English: “What did I do today?”) is a video based
journaling app that allows you to save moments of your day and later relive
them again!

### Runner Up#

[Potato](https://github.com/Rohithgilla12/potato) \- by [Rohith
Gilla](https://github.com/Rohithgilla12)

A productivity manager application where you can leave a note right from your
desktop. Designed to sync across your devices and supports macOS!

## Best Realtime Project#

### Winner#

[RepoWatch](https://github.com/vvidday/repo-watch) \- by
[@vvidday](https://github.com/vvidday)

With RepoWatch, you can view any updates on across all the repositories in the
Supabase GitHub org in realtime.

### Runner Up#

[Cowofi](https://github.com/Cowofi/cowofi) \- by
[@itsalb3rt](https://twitter.com/alhidalgodev),
[@chakrihacker](https://twitter.com/chakrihacker),
[@rafieltq](https://twitter.com/rafiel_tq) and
[@pcabreram1234](https://twitter.com/pcabreram1234)

CoWoFi is an application that helps managers, executives and the general
public who need to rent an ideal space for their work team.

## The Prizes#

As promised in the [hackathon announcement
article](https://supabase.com/blog/launch-week-5-hackathon), each members of
the winners will receive a limited edition golden Supabase cap!

And the runner uppers will receive the same cap but in silver. These caps are
limited edition and [extremely valuable](https://supabase.store/products/gold-
supacap), so keep them safe! Again, congratulations on all the winners!

## Hang out with us and the winners of the Hackathon#

To celebrate the massive success of the Hackathon, we are hosting a Twitter
Space with and inviting the winners and everyone who participated. Join us on
Tuesday 30 August at 7:00 AM PST

[Set a reminder](https://twitter.com/i/spaces/1LyxBoXywLjKN)

And if you want to be part of the community and build with us, find other
people using Supabase, or if you just want to chill and watch people build,
come and join us in Discord!

**[Join our Discord](https://discord.supabase.com/)**

### Get Started Guides#

If you're inspired to build, check out some of the latest resources:

  * [**supabase-js v2 Release Candidate**](https://supabase.com/blog/supabase-js-v2)
  * [**Supabase Realtime Guide**](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/realtime)
  * [**Flutter Quick Start Guide**](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/with-flutter)
  * [**Supabase CLI local development guide**](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/local-development)
  * [**Edge Functions Guide**](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/functions)

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-5-hackathon-
winners&text=Launch%20Week%205%20Hackathon%20Winners)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-5-hackathon-
winners&text=Launch%20Week%205%20Hackathon%20Winners)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-5-hackathon-winners&t=Launch%20Week%205%20Hackathon%20Winners)

[Last postSupabase Beta August 20227 September 2022](/blog/supabase-beta-
update-august-2022)

[Next postBuilding a Realtime Trello Board with Supabase and Angular24 August
2022](/blog/building-a-realtime-trello-board-with-supabase-and-angular)

[hackathon](/blog/tags/hackathon)[community](/blog/tags/community)

On this page

  * Best Overall Project
  * Most Visually Pleasing
  * Most Technically Impressive
  * Most Fun/Interesting
  * Best Flutter Project
  * Best Realtime Project
  * The Prizes
  * Hang out with us and the winners of the Hackathon

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-5-hackathon-
winners&text=Launch%20Week%205%20Hackathon%20Winners)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-5-hackathon-
winners&text=Launch%20Week%205%20Hackathon%20Winners)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flaunch-
week-5-hackathon-winners&t=Launch%20Week%205%20Hackathon%20Winners)

## Build in a weekend, scale to millions

[Start your project](https://supabase.com/dashboard)[Request a
demo](/contact/sales)

