[Back](/blog)

[Blog](/blog)

# Introducing Log Drains

15 Aug 2024

â€¢

5 minute read

[![Lee TzeYiing
avatar](/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FZiinc.png&w=96&q=75)Lee
TzeYiingEngineering](https://github.com/Ziinc)

![Introducing Log
Drains](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flw12%2Fday-4%2Flog-drains-
thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)

Today, Supabase is releasing Log Drains for all Team and Enterprise users.

With Log Drains, developers can export logs generated by their Supabase
products to external destinations, such as Datadog or custom HTTP endpoints.
All logs generated by Supabase products such as the Database, Storage,
Realtime and Auth are supported.

Beyond providing a single pane of glass inside your existing logging and
monitoring system, Log Drains can be used to build additional alerting and
observability pipelines. For example, you can ingest Postgres connection logs
into your Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) or Intrusion
Detection System (IDS) to create custom alerting rules based on events
happening in your database.

This feature also allows for extended retention periods to meet compliance
requirements and provide an important escape hatch for advanced use cases
while we continue to improve logging and alerting within the Supabase platform

## Configuring Log Drains#

Log drains can be set up in the project settings.

The initial supported destinations are:

  * Datadog Logs
  * HTTP Endpoint

Popular destinations like Datadog are supported out of the box. More detailed
setup guides are available within the [log drains
documentation](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/platform/log-drains).

For the providers that are not natively supported yet, the HTTP Endpoint drain
can be used to send logs to any destination that supports ingestion via HTTP
POST requests. For example, you can send logs to an Edge Function, filter, or
restructure the logs, and then dispatch them to an external provider. In the
following example, we perform a simple `console.log` of the received JSON
payload. Detailed setup guide is available under the [Edge Functions
guide](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/platform/log-drain#generic-http-
endpoints).

Log Drains are available for self-hosting and local development through the
Studio under Project Settings > Log Drains.

## The Supabase Analytics server#

Log Drains are built into [Logflare](https://github.com/Logflare/logflare),
the analytics and observability server of the Supabase stack.

The architecture of analytics server had to be rewritten to allow for
efficient and scalable log dispatching to multiple destinations. This
architecture revamp is part of a multi-year effort to allow multiple backends
to be used with the server, as the initial architecture was heavily tied to
Google BigQuery. This was first seen through our initial release of [Supabase
Logs Self-Hosted](https://supabase.com/blog/supabase-logs-self-hosted) which
utilizes a PostgreSQL backend out-of-the-box for self-hosted and CLI setups.
User can optionally switch between a PostgreSQL backend and a BigQuery backend
depending on their needs.

Development work for the architecture change had first started in [mid
2022](https://github.com/Logflare/logflare/pull/1153), and
[PostgreSQL](https://github.com/Logflare/logflare/pull/1553) was our very
first backend added to this architecture. The new multi-backend architecture,
dubbed internally as the **V2 pipeline** , has undergone extensive
[benchmarking](https://github.com/Logflare/logflare/pull/2035) and
[profiling](https://github.com/Logflare/logflare/pull/2111) to ensure that
changes brought about by the V2 pipeline only improve and enhance the
performance and stability of the server.

One of the Logflare features that Log Drains extends is the ingest-time rules.
Prior to the Log Drains implementation, these rules applied to specific
sources and allowed for routing of events from one source to another source.
In Logflare terms, a **source** acts as an abstracted queryable table. These
rules then specified filters on whether the event would be inserted into the
target source. Extending upon this with the multi-backends architecture, Log
Drains now uses these rules to route events from each product's source to a
user-configured drain destination, which is modeled as a backend.

With these changes, Logflare is able to provide soft-realtime dispatching of
log events to user destinations as fast as they get inserted into the
underlying backend used for storage due to the highly scalable concurrency
brought about by the BEAM runtime. This means that on the Supabase Platform,
any Log Drain configured will receive events as fast or even faster than they
appear in the Logs UI.

### Self-Hosting and Local Development#

In alignment with Supabase open-source philosophy, Log Drains will be fully
available without restriction for local development and self-hosting. You can
track the progress of the [pull
request](https://github.com/supabase/supabase/pull/28297) that makes this
happen for the latest updates.

Instructions for setting up and configuring the Analytics server can be found
in the [self-hosting docs](https://supabase.com/docs/reference/self-hosting-
analytics/introduction). If you are interested in how we open-sourced
Logflare, check out the blog post [here](https://supabase.com/blog/supabase-
logs-self-hosted).

## Pricing#

Log Drains are available as an project Add-On for all Team and Enterprise
users. Each Log Drain costs $60 per month per project, with a $0.20 per
million log events processing fee and a $0.09 per GB egress fee as part of
unified egress.

## Roadmap#

  * We intend to support a wide variety of destinations. Syslog and [Loki](https://github.com/grafana/loki) are currently under development and are expected to be released in the coming weeks. If you would like your favorite tools to be supported as a destination, vote on [this Github discussion](https://github.com/orgs/supabase/discussions/28324)!
  * Log sampling to control the volume of logs sent to the drain
  * Draining specific product logs
  * Sharing Log Drains between multiple projects

[Launch Week12](/launch-week)

12-16 August

[Day 1 -postgres.new: In-browser Postgres with an AI
interface](/blog/postgres-new)[Day 2 -Realtime Broadcast and Presence
Authorization](/blog/supabase-realtime-broadcast-and-presence-
authorization)[Day 3 -Supabase Auth: Bring-your-own Auth0, Cognito, or
Firebase](/blog/third-party-auth-mfa-phone-send-hooks)[Day 4 -Introducing Log
Drains](/blog/log-drains)[Day 5 -Postgres Foreign Data Wrappers with
Wasm](/blog/postgres-foreign-data-wrappers-with-wasm)

Build Stage

[01 -GitHub Copilot](/blog/github-copilot-extension-for-vs-code)[02
-pg_replicate](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41209994)[03 -Snaplet is
now open source](/blog/snaplet-is-now-open-source)[04 -Supabase
Book](/blog/supabase-book-by-david-lorenz)[05
-PostgREST](/blog/postgrest-12-2)[06 -vec2pg](/blog/vec2pg)[07
-pg_graphql](/blog/pg-graphql-1-5-7)[08 -Platform Access
Control](/blog/platform-access-control)[09 -python-support](/blog/python-
support)[10 -Launch Week Summary](/blog/launch-week-12-top-10)[Community
Meetups](/launch-week#meetups)

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flog-
drains&text=Introducing%20Log%20Drains)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flog-
drains&text=Introducing%20Log%20Drains)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flog-
drains&t=Introducing%20Log%20Drains)

[Last postvec2pg: Migrate to pgvector from Pinecone and Qdrant16 August
2024](/blog/vec2pg)

[Next postpg_graphql 1.5.7: pagination and multi-tenancy support15 August
2024](/blog/pg-graphql-1-5-7)

[launch-week](/blog/tags/launch-
week)[o11y](/blog/tags/o11y)[logging](/blog/tags/logging)

On this page

  * Configuring Log Drains
  * The Supabase Analytics server
    * Self-Hosting and Local Development
  * Pricing
  * Roadmap

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flog-
drains&text=Introducing%20Log%20Drains)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flog-
drains&text=Introducing%20Log%20Drains)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Flog-
drains&t=Introducing%20Log%20Drains)

## Build in a weekend, scale to millions

[Start your project](https://supabase.com/dashboard)[Request a
demo](/contact/sales)

