[Back](/blog)

[Blog](/blog)

# GitHub OAuth in your Python Flask app

21 Nov 2023

â€¢

5 minute read

[![Andrew Smith
avatar](/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fsilentworks.png&w=96&q=75)Andrew
SmithDevRel & DX](https://github.com/silentworks)

![GitHub OAuth in your Python Flask
app](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Foauth2-login-python-flask-
apps%2Fflask-supabase-auth.jpg&w=3840&q=100)

In this guide we'll learn how to quickly build an OAuth2.0 integration into a
simple Flask app using Supabase-py. This will enable your users to login to
your web app using their GitHub account.

## Prerequisites#

This article assumes you are familiar with creating an application in Flask.
It also assumes that you have read the Supabase documentation and are familiar
the with concept of [Authentication](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth).

We'll use the following tools:

  * [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/3.0.x/) \- we used version 2.3.3 for this article
  * Supabase Dashboard - [create an account](https://database.new/) if you don't have one already

## Getting started#

To begin, inside your Flask application install the `supabase` library using
the following command in the terminal:

`  

_10

pip install supabase

  
`

## Session storage#

Open the project in your preferred code editor and create a file called
`flask_storage.py` with the following content:

`  

_17

from gotrue import SyncSupportedStorage

_17

from flask import session

_17

_17

class FlaskSessionStorage(SyncSupportedStorage):

_17

def __init__(self):

_17

self.storage = session

_17

_17

def get_item(self, key: str) -> str | None:

_17

if key in self.storage:

_17

return self.storage[key]

_17

_17

def set_item(self, key: str, value: str) -> None:

_17

self.storage[key] = value

_17

_17

def remove_item(self, key: str) -> None:

_17

if key in self.storage:

_17

self.storage.pop(key, None)

  
`

In this file, we're extending the `SyncSupportedStorage` class from the
`gotrue` library which comes bundled with the `supabase` library. Here we're
telling the Supabase authentication library (`gotrue`) how to retrieve, store
and remove a session that will store our JSON Web Token (JWT).

## Initiate the client#

Create another file called `supabase_client.py` and in this file, we'll
initiate our Supabase client.

`  

_22

import os

_22

from flask import g

_22

from werkzeug.local import LocalProxy

_22

from supabase.client import Client, ClientOptions

_22

from flask_storage import FlaskSessionStorage

_22

_22

url = os.environ.get("SUPABASE_URL", "")

_22

key = os.environ.get("SUPABASE_KEY", "")

_22

_22

def get_supabase() -> Client:

_22

if "supabase" not in g:

_22

g.supabase = Client(

_22

url,

_22

key,

_22

options=ClientOptions(

_22

storage=FlaskSessionStorage(),

_22

flow_type="pkce"

_22

),

_22

)

_22

return g.supabase

_22

_22

supabase: Client = LocalProxy(get_supabase)

  
`

Let's focus on the `get_supabase` function. Here we are checking if we have an
instance of the client stored in our global object `g`, if not we create the
client and store it in the global object under the `supabase` name. You will
notice in the `ClientOptions` that we are specifying the `FlaskSessionStorage`
class we created earlier and we are also specifying a very important option
that allows us to handle the OAuth flow on the server side, the
`flow_type="pkce"`.

## Sign in with GitHub#

Supabase Auth supports Sign in with GitHub on the web, native Android
applications, and Chrome extensions.

For detailed set up and implementation instructions please refer to the
[docs](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/social-login/auth-github).

## Create sign-in route#

Inside our application code `app.py`, we can create the sign-in route to
trigger the OAuth sign-in request.

`  

_11

@app.route("/signin/github")

_11

def signin_with_github():

_11

res = supabase.auth.sign_in_with_oauth(

_11

{

_11

"provider": "github",

_11

"options": {

_11

"redirect_to": f"{request.host_url}callback"

_11

},

_11

}

_11

)

_11

return redirect(res.url)

  
`

In this function `options` object we specify a `redirect_to` parameter which
will point to the callback route we will create in the next step. This
function will generate a url for us to use to redirect the user to, in this
case we are using `github` as our OAuth provider so we will be redirected to
the GitHub OAuth consent screen.

## Create callback route#

Let's add another route to our `app.py` file for the callback endpoint we
specified in our sign in route.

`  

_10

@app.route("/callback")

_10

def callback():

_10

code = request.args.get("code")

_10

next = request.args.get("next", "/")

_10

_10

if code:

_10

res = supabase.auth.exchange_code_for_session({"auth_code": code})

_10

_10

return redirect(next)

  
`

Here we're getting the `code` query parameter from the request object, if this
is available we then exchange the code for a session so that the user will be
signed in. Under the hood the `supabase` python library will handle storing
this session (JWT) into a cookie and sign the user in.

## Conclusion#

In this post we explained how to setup a flask session storage to work with
the Supabase python library, setting the `flow_type` to use Proof Key for Code
Exchange (PKCE) and creating a sign in and a callback route to handle the user
authentication.

## More Resources#

  * [supabase-py reference docs](https://supabase.com/docs/reference/python/installing)
  * [supabase-py GitHub repo](https://github.com/supabase-community/supabase-py)
  * [Deep Dive series on auth concepts in Supabase](https://supabase.com/docs/learn/auth-deep-dive/auth-deep-dive-jwts)

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Foauth2-login-
python-flask-
apps&text=GitHub%20OAuth%20in%20your%20Python%20Flask%20app)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Foauth2-login-
python-flask-
apps&text=GitHub%20OAuth%20in%20your%20Python%20Flask%20app)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Foauth2-login-
python-flask-apps&t=GitHub%20OAuth%20in%20your%20Python%20Flask%20app)

[Last postAutomatic CLI login1 December 2023](/blog/automatic-cli-login)

[Next postGetting started with React Native authentication16 November
2023](/blog/react-native-authentication)

[python](/blog/tags/python)[auth](/blog/tags/auth)

On this page

  * Prerequisites
  * Getting started
  * Session storage
  * Initiate the client
  * Sign in with GitHub
  * Create sign-in route
  * Create callback route
  * Conclusion
  * More Resources

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Foauth2-login-
python-flask-
apps&text=GitHub%20OAuth%20in%20your%20Python%20Flask%20app)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Foauth2-login-
python-flask-
apps&text=GitHub%20OAuth%20in%20your%20Python%20Flask%20app)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Foauth2-login-
python-flask-apps&t=GitHub%20OAuth%20in%20your%20Python%20Flask%20app)

## Build in a weekend, scale to millions

[Start your project](https://supabase.com/dashboard)[Request a
demo](/contact/sales)

