[Back](/blog)

[Blog](/blog)

# pg_graphql: A GraphQL extension for PostgreSQL

03 Dec 2021

â€¢

7 minute read

[![Oliver Rice
avatar](/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Folirice.png&w=96&q=75)Oliver
RiceEngineering](https://github.com/olirice)

![pg_graphql: A GraphQL extension for
PostgreSQL](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flaunch-week-three%2Ffive-more-
things%2Fsupabase-pg-graphql-thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=100)

ðŸ†• `pg_graphql` is now generally available and has undergone significant
enhancements since this announcement. Here is what is new:

  * [pg_graphql v1.0](https://supabase.com/blog/pg-graphql-v1)
  * [New Features in pg_graphql v1.2](https://supabase.com/blog/whats-new-in-pg-graphql-v1-2)

Today we're open sourcing
[`pg_graphql`](https://github.com/supabase/pg_graphql), a native PostgreSQL
extension adding GraphQL support. The extension keeps schema generation, query
parsing, and resolvers all neatly contained on your database server requiring
no external services.

`pg_graphql` inspects an existing PostgreSQL schema and reflects a GraphQL
schema with resolvers that are:

  * performant
  * always up-to-date
  * compliant with best practices
  * serverless
  * open source

Interested? You're [3 commands
away](https://supabase.github.io/pg_graphql/quickstart/) from a live
[GraphiQL](https://graphql-dotnet.github.io/docs/getting-started/graphiql/)
demo.

## Motivation#

The Supabase stack is centered around PostgreSQL as the single source of
truth. All data, configuration, and security are housed in the database so any
GraphQL solution needed to be equivalently SQL-centric.

With that in mind, we took a look at the landscape and considered two
excellent technologies, [Graphile](https://www.graphile.org/postgraphile/),
and [Hasura](https://hasura.io/).

Requirements| Graphile| Hasura  
---|---|---  
Open Source| âœ…| âœ…  
Reflected GraphQL Schema| âœ…| âœ…  
Reflected Resolvers| âœ…| âœ…  
Always up-to-date| âœ…| âœ…  
Performant| âœ…| âœ…  
  
We found both options to be largely viable for the core feature set.

Which left us with one final hang-up: we host free-tier projects on VMs with 1
GB of memory. After tallying the resources reserved for PostgreSQL, PostgREST,
Kong, GoTrue, and a handful of smaller services, we were left with a total
memory budget of ... 0 MB ðŸ˜¬. Unsurprisingly, our pathological memory target
disqualified any option that required launching another process in those VMs.

For that reason, we decided to invest in a lightweight alternative that runs
in the database, and can be exposed over HTTP using the existing
[PostgREST](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/database/api) deployments' [RPC
functionality.](https://postgrest.org/en/v8.0/api.html#stored-procedures)

By our most conservative estimate, that reduces the platform's memory
requirements by 525 TB/hours every month, saving ðŸ’° and ðŸŒ³.

## Design#

As a native PostgreSQL extension, `pg_graphl` is written in a combination of C
and SQL. Each GraphQL query is parsed, validated, and transpiled to SQL, all
within the database.

Each GraphQL request is resolved by a single SQL statement. That SQL statement
aggregates requested data as a JSON document to return to the caller. This
approach results in blazing fast response times, avoids the [N+1 query
problem](https://medium.com/the-marcy-lab-school/what-is-the-n-1-problem-in-
graphql-dd4921cb3c1a), and hits the theoretical minimum achievable network IO
overhead of any GraphQL to SQL resolver. No special permissions are required
for the PostgreSQL role executing queries, so `pg_graphql` is fully compatible
with your existing [row level security policies](/docs/guides/auth/row-level-
security).

Embedding the GraphQL server directly in the database allows us to leverage
PostgreSQL's built-in solutions for common challenges:

Caching â†’ `PREPARE STATEMENT`

Errors â†’ `RAISE EXCEPTION`

Bad Data â†’ `ROLLBACK`

Authorization â†’ `CREATE POLICY`

Similarly, `pg_graphql` benefits from PostgreSQL's strong
[ACID](https://database.guide/what-is-acid-in-databases/) guarantees and can
expose them through its API.

Ever wanted to execute multiple operations in a single transaction? Each
request is managed in a single transaction so with a multi-operation GraphQL
request and `pg_graphql`, that behavior falls out for free!

### Schema Reflection#

As a limited example of how the reflection engine works, here's how it
converts a single table into a full GraphQL schema.

hideCopy

`  

_10

# schema.sql

_10

create table account (

_10

id serial primary key,

_10

email varchar(255) not null,

_10

created_at timestamp not null,

_10

updated_at timestamp not null

_10

);

  
`

Translates into

hideCopy

`  

_37

# schema.graphql

_37

scalar Cursor

_37

scalar DateTime

_37

scalar JSON

_37

scalar UUID

_37

scalar BigInt

_37

_37

type PageInfo {

_37

hasNextPage: Boolean!

_37

hasPreviousPage: Boolean!

_37

startCursor: String!

_37

endCursor: String!

_37

}

_37

_37

type Query {

_37

account(nodeId: ID!): Account

_37

allAccounts(after: Cursor, before: Cursor, first: Int, last: Int):
AccountConnection

_37

}

_37

_37

type Account {

_37

nodeId: ID!

_37

id: String!

_37

email: String!

_37

createdAt: DateTime!

_37

updatedAt: DateTime!

_37

}

_37

_37

type AccountEdge {

_37

cursor: String!

_37

node: Account

_37

}

_37

_37

type AccountConnection {

_37

totalCount: Int!

_37

pageInfo: PageInfo!

_37

edges: [AccountEdge]

_37

}

  
`

Where `Query` type's `account` field selects a single account by its globally
unique `ID` and `allAccounts` enables pagination via the [relay connections
specification](https://relay.dev/graphql/connections.htm). Under the SQL hood,
iterating through pages is handled using keyset pagination giving consistent
retrieval times on every page.

For a more complete examples with relationships, enums, and more exotic types
check out the [API doc](https://supabase.github.io/pg_graphql/api).

### API#

`pg_graphql`'s public API is a single SQL function that returns JSON.

hideCopy

`  

_10

gql.resolve(

_10

stmt text, -- the graphql query/mutation

_10

variables jsonb default '{}'::jsonb, -- key value pairs

_10

)

_10

returns jsonb

  
`

For example, a GraphQL query selecting the `id` field for a collection of type
`Book` would look like this:

hideCopy

`  

_17

gqldb= select gql.resolve($$

_17

_17

query {

_17

allBooks {

_17

edges {

_17

node {

_17

id

_17

}

_17

}

_17

}

_17

}

_17

_17

$$);

_17

_17

resolve

_17

----------------------------------------------------------------------

_17

{"data": {"allBooks": {"edges": [{"node": {"id": 1}}]}}, "errors": []}

  
`

We're opting to expose the function over HTTP through PostgREST but you could
also connect to the PostgreSQL database and call the function directly from
your server code in any programming language.

## Performance#

When it comes to APIs, performance counts. Here are some figures from [Apache
Bench](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/apache_bench/apache_bench_quick_guide.htm)
showing 2,205 requests/second on a 4 core machine with 16 GB of memory.

hideCopy

`  

_11

Concurrency Level: 8

_11

Time taken for tests: 3.628 seconds

_11

Complete requests: 8000

_11

Failed requests: 0

_11

Total transferred: 1768000 bytes

_11

Total body sent: 1928000

_11

HTML transferred: 368000 bytes

_11

Requests per second: 2205.21 [#/sec] (mean)

_11

Time per request: 3.628 [ms] (mean)

_11

Time per request: 0.453 [ms] (mean, across all concurrent requests)

_11

Transfer rate: 475.93 [Kbytes/sec] received

  
`

Full steps to reproduce this output are available in [the
docs](https://supabase.github.io/pg_graphql).

## Open Source#

`pg_graphql` is [open source
software](https://github.com/supabase/pg_graphql/). As always, Issues and PRs
are welcome.

[Try `pg_graphql`](https://supabase.github.io/pg_graphql/quickstart/) today to
see a live [GraphiQL](https://graphql-dotnet.github.io/docs/getting-
started/graphiql/) demo.

## More pg_graphql#

  * [pg_graphql v1.0](https://supabase.com/blog/pg-graphql-v1)
  * [New Features in pg_graphql v1.2](https://supabase.com/blog/whats-new-in-pg-graphql-v1-2)
  * [pg_graphql: Postgres functions now supported](https://supabase.com/blog/pg-graphql-postgres-functions)

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fpg-
graphql&text=pg_graphql%3A%20A%20GraphQL%20extension%20for%20PostgreSQL)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fpg-
graphql&text=pg_graphql%3A%20A%20GraphQL%20extension%20for%20PostgreSQL)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fpg-
graphql&t=pg_graphql%3A%20A%20GraphQL%20extension%20for%20PostgreSQL)

[Last postFive more things3 December 2021](/blog/launch-week-three-friday-
five-more-things)

[Next postKicking off the Holiday Hackdays3 December 2021](/blog/supabase-
holiday-hackdays-hackathon)

[launch-week](/blog/tags/launch-
week)[community](/blog/tags/community)[graphql](/blog/tags/graphql)

On this page

  * Motivation
  * Design
    * Schema Reflection
    * API
  * Performance
  * Open Source
  * More pg_graphql

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fpg-
graphql&text=pg_graphql%3A%20A%20GraphQL%20extension%20for%20PostgreSQL)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fpg-
graphql&text=pg_graphql%3A%20A%20GraphQL%20extension%20for%20PostgreSQL)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fpg-
graphql&t=pg_graphql%3A%20A%20GraphQL%20extension%20for%20PostgreSQL)

## Build in a weekend, scale to millions

[Start your project](https://supabase.com/dashboard)[Request a
demo](/contact/sales)

