[Back](/blog)

[Blog](/blog)

# Postgres Foreign Data Wrappers with Wasm

16 Aug 2024

â€¢

8 minute read

[![Bo Lu
avatar](/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fburmecia.png&w=96&q=75)Bo
LuEngineering](https://github.com/burmecia)

![Postgres Foreign Data Wrappers with
Wasm](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flw12%2Fday-5%2Fthumb_FDW-with-
WASM.png&w=3840&q=100)

Foreign Data Wrappers (FDWs) allow Postgres to interact with externally hosted
data. To operate a FDW, the user creates a foreign table. When queried, the
foreign table reaches out to the 3rd party service, collects the requested
data, and returns it to the query in the shape defined by the foreign table.
This allows seamless querying and data manipulation across different tools as
if they were local tables from within Postgres.

[Wrappers](https://github.com/supabase/wrappers) is a Rust framework for
creating Postgres Foreign Data Wrappers. Today we're releasing support for
[Wasm (WebAssembly)](https://webassembly.org/) wrappers.

With this feature, anyone can create a Wasm wrapper to an external service and
run it directly from e.g. GitHub:

`  

_14

-- An Example Google Sheets Wasm Wrapper:

_14

_14

create server google_sheets

_14

foreign data wrapper wasm_wrapper

_14

options (

_14

-- Install from GitHub

_14

fdw_package_url
'https://github.com/<ORG>/<REPO>/releases/download/v0.2.0/google_sheets_fdw.wasm',

_14

fdw_package_name 'my-company:google-sheets-fdw',

_14

fdw_package_version '0.2.0',

_14

fdw_package_checksum
'338674c4c983aa6dbc2b6e63659076fe86d847ca0da6d57a61372b44e0fe4ac9',

_14

_14

-- Provide custom options

_14

base_url 'https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d'

_14

);

  
`

This feature is available today in public alpha for all new projects.

## What are Foreign Data Wrappers?#

[Foreign Data Wrappers
(FDW)](https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Foreign_data_wrappers) are a powerful
feature of Postgres that allows you to connect to and query external data
sources as if they were regular tables.

[Wrappers](https://github.com/supabase/wrappers) is an open source project
that simplifies the creation of Postgres Foreign Data Wrappers using
[Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/).

## Why WebAssembly?#

[WebAssembly (Wasm)](https://webassembly.org/) is a binary instruction format
that enables secure and high-performance execution of code on the web. It is
originally designed for web browsers, but now can also be used in server-side
environments like Postgres.

Here's how the Wasm FDW benefits us:

  * **Improved Security:** Wasm's sandboxed execution runtime with minimum interfaces enhances the security of FDW.
  * **Simplified Development:** Developers can use [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/) to create complex FDWs without diving deep into Postgres internal API.
  * **Simplified Distribution:** Easily distribute your Wasm FDW through any URL-accessible storage (such as GitHub or S3).
  * **Enhanced Performance:** Wasm's near-native speed ensures FDWs operate with minimal overhead.
  * **Increased Modularity:** Each Wasm FDW is an isolated package which is dynamically loaded and executed by Wrappers individually.

## Architecture#

To better understand how the Wasm FDW works, let's take a look at the
architecture:

The above diagram illustrates the key components and how they interact:

  1. **Supabase Wrappers Extension (Host):** This is the core component that runs within Postgres. It includes below modules:
     * **Wasm Runtime:** Provides runtime environment to executes the Wasm FDW package.
     * **HTTP Interface:** Manages communication with external data sources through HTTP.
     * **Utilities:** Helper tools and functions to support FDW operations.
     * Other modules providing specific functionalities, such like JWT, stats and etc.
  2. **Wasm FDWs (Guests):** Isolated, dynamically-loaded Wasm packages that perform data fetching and processing. They execute in a sandboxed environment to ensure security and performance. For example:
     * **Snowflake Wasm FDW:** A foreign data wrapper specifically designed to interact with [Snowflake](https://www.snowflake.com/).
     * **Paddle Wasm FDW:** Another FDW example, tailored for [Paddle](https://www.paddle.com/) integration.
  3. **Web Storage:** Represents external storage services like [GitHub](https://github.com/) or [S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/), where Wasm packages can be publicly stored and downloaded from.
  4. **External Data Source:** Various external systems which data is fetched from or pushed to, such as [Snowflake](https://www.snowflake.com/) and [Paddle](https://www.paddle.com/). Data is accessed using RESTful APIs.

## Data fetching#

Wasm FDWs are loaded dynamically when the first request is made. The
interaction flow is:

  1. **Wasm download:** The Wasm FDWs are dynamically downloaded from web storage services, like GitHub or S3, and cached locally. This happens the first time the `SELECT` statement is initiated.
  2. **Initialization and Execution:** Once downloaded, the Wasm FDWs are initialized and executed within the embedded Wasm runtime environment. This provides a secure, sandboxed execution environment that isolates the packages from the main Postgres system.
  3. **Data Fetching via RESTful API:** The Wasm FDWs interact with their respective external data sources via RESTful APIs.
  4. **Query Handling and Data Integration:** When a query is executed against a foreign table in Postgres, the Supabase Wrappers extension invokes the appropriate Wasm FDW, fetches data from the external source, processes it, and returns it to the Supabase Wrappers, which integrates it back into the Postgres query execution pipeline.

The Wasm FDW currently only supports data sources which have HTTP(s) based
JSON API, other sources such like TCP/IP based DBMS or local files are not
supported yet.

## Developing your own Wasm FDW#

A major benefit of Wasm FDW is that you can build your own FDW and use it on
Supabase. To get started, clone the [Postgres Wasm FDW
[Template]](https://github.com/supabase-community/postgres-wasm-fdw). Building
your own Wasm FDWs opens up a world of possibilities for integrating diverse
data sources into Postgres.

Visit [Wrappers docs and guides](https://fdw.dev/guides/create-wasm-wrapper/)
to learn more about how to develop a Wasm FDW.

As the Wasm FDW can access external data sources, you should never install
Wasm Wrappers from untrusted source. Always use official Supabase FDWs, or use
sources which you have full visibility and control.

## Try it now on Supabase#

The Wasm FDW feature is available today on the Supabase platform. We have 2
new built-in Wasm FDWs:
[Snowflake](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/database/extensions/wrappers/snowflake)
and
[Paddle](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/database/extensions/wrappers/paddle).

To get started, follow below steps:

  1. Create a new Supabase project: [database.new](http://database.new)
  2. Navigate to the [Database -> Wrappers](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/database/wrappers) section and enable Wrappers.
  3. Add `Snowflake` or `Paddle` wrapper, follow the instructions and create foreign tables.

We can also use SQL. Let's try, using the Paddle FDW as an example.

### Enable Wasm Wrappers#

Inside the [SQL editor](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/sql/new),
enable the Wasm Wrapper feature:

`  

_10

-- install Wrappers extension

_10

create extension if not exists wrappers with schema extensions;

_10

_10

-- create Wasm foreign data wrapper

_10

create foreign data wrapper wasm_wrapper

_10

handler wasm_fdw_handler

_10

validator wasm_fdw_validator;

  
`

### Get your Paddle credentials#

Sign up for [a sandbox account](https://developer.paddle.com/api-
reference/overview#base-url) and [get API key](https://sandbox-
vendors.paddle.com/authentication-v2) with Paddle.

### Save your Paddle credentials#

Create a Paddle server in Postgres using the Wasm FDW created above:

`  

_15

-- create Paddle foreign server

_15

create server paddle_server

_15

foreign data wrapper wasm_wrapper

_15

options (

_15

-- check all available versions at

_15

-- https://fdw.dev/catalog/paddle/#available-versions

_15

fdw_package_url
'https://github.com/supabase/wrappers/releases/download/wasm_paddle_fdw_v0.1.1/paddle_fdw.wasm',

_15

fdw_package_name 'supabase:paddle-fdw',

_15

fdw_package_version '0.1.1',

_15

fdw_package_checksum
'c5ac70bb2eef33693787b7d4efce9a83cde8d4fa40889d2037403a51263ba657',

_15

_15

-- save your Paddle credentials

_15

api_url 'https://sandbox-api.paddle.com',

_15

api_key '<your Paddle sandbox API key>'

_15

);

  
`

### Set up your Foreign Tables#

Create a table for Paddle data:

`  

_19

-- create dedicated schema for Paddle foreign tables

_19

create schema if not exists paddle;

_19

_19

-- create foreign table

_19

create foreign table paddle.customers (

_19

id text,

_19

name text,

_19

email text,

_19

status text,

_19

custom_data jsonb,

_19

created_at timestamp,

_19

updated_at timestamp,

_19

attrs jsonb

_19

)

_19

server paddle_server

_19

options (

_19

object 'customers',

_19

rowid_column 'id'

_19

);

  
`

### Query Paddle from Postgres#

Now let's query the foreign table and check the result:

`  

_10

select id, name, email, status

_10

from paddle.customers;

  
`

That's it. Head over to the [Supabase Wrappers
documentation](https://fdw.dev/) to find more detailed guides on setting up
and using Wasm FDWs.

## Thanks to our community contributors#

None of this innovation would have been possible without the relentless
efforts and contributions of our vibrant community. We'd like to thank all the
following developers for their contributions:

[Aayushya Vajpayee](https://github.com/AayushyaVajpayee), [Romain
Graux](https://github.com/romaingrx)

Want to join the Supabase Wrappers community contributors? [Check out our
contribution docs](https://fdw.dev/contributing/core/).

[Launch Week12](/launch-week)

12-16 August

[Day 1 -postgres.new: In-browser Postgres with an AI
interface](/blog/postgres-new)[Day 2 -Realtime Broadcast and Presence
Authorization](/blog/supabase-realtime-broadcast-and-presence-
authorization)[Day 3 -Supabase Auth: Bring-your-own Auth0, Cognito, or
Firebase](/blog/third-party-auth-mfa-phone-send-hooks)[Day 4 -Introducing Log
Drains](/blog/log-drains)[Day 5 -Postgres Foreign Data Wrappers with
Wasm](/blog/postgres-foreign-data-wrappers-with-wasm)

Build Stage

[01 -GitHub Copilot](/blog/github-copilot-extension-for-vs-code)[02
-pg_replicate](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41209994)[03 -Snaplet is
now open source](/blog/snaplet-is-now-open-source)[04 -Supabase
Book](/blog/supabase-book-by-david-lorenz)[05
-PostgREST](/blog/postgrest-12-2)[06 -vec2pg](/blog/vec2pg)[07
-pg_graphql](/blog/pg-graphql-1-5-7)[08 -Platform Access
Control](/blog/platform-access-control)[09 -python-support](/blog/python-
support)[10 -Launch Week Summary](/blog/launch-week-12-top-10)[Community
Meetups](/launch-week#meetups)

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fpostgres-
foreign-data-wrappers-with-
wasm&text=Postgres%20Foreign%20Data%20Wrappers%20with%20Wasm)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fpostgres-
foreign-data-wrappers-with-
wasm&text=Postgres%20Foreign%20Data%20Wrappers%20with%20Wasm)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fpostgres-
foreign-data-wrappers-with-
wasm&t=Postgres%20Foreign%20Data%20Wrappers%20with%20Wasm)

[Last postIntroducing New Platform Access Control16 August
2024](/blog/platform-access-control)

[Next postPostgREST 12.2: Prometheus metrics16 August
2024](/blog/postgrest-12-2)

[launch-week](/blog/tags/launch-
week)[wasm](/blog/tags/wasm)[wrappers](/blog/tags/wrappers)

On this page

  * What are Foreign Data Wrappers?
  * Why WebAssembly?
  * Architecture
  * Data fetching
  * Developing your own Wasm FDW
  * Try it now on Supabase
    * Enable Wasm Wrappers
    * Get your Paddle credentials
    * Save your Paddle credentials
    * Set up your Foreign Tables
    * Query Paddle from Postgres
  * Thanks to our community contributors

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fpostgres-
foreign-data-wrappers-with-
wasm&text=Postgres%20Foreign%20Data%20Wrappers%20with%20Wasm)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fpostgres-
foreign-data-wrappers-with-
wasm&text=Postgres%20Foreign%20Data%20Wrappers%20with%20Wasm)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fpostgres-
foreign-data-wrappers-with-
wasm&t=Postgres%20Foreign%20Data%20Wrappers%20with%20Wasm)

## Build in a weekend, scale to millions

[Start your project](https://supabase.com/dashboard)[Request a
demo](/contact/sales)

