[Back](/blog)

[Blog](/blog)

# Supabase Python

16 Aug 2024

â€¢

6 minute read

[![Guilherme Souza
avatar](/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fgrdsdev.png&w=96&q=75)Guilherme
SouzaEngineering](https://github.com/grdsdev)

![Supabase
Python](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flw12%2Fday-5%2Fthumb_python.png&w=3840&q=100)

As the Supabase community has grown, so has demand for a diverse collection of
client libraries and framework specific SDKs. This demand for the most part
has been serviced by the open source community itself, which currently
maintains [dozens of libraries](https://github.com/supabase-community/#client-
libraries).

When folks make requests to the hosted Supabase service we're able to build up
a good picture of how broadly some of these libraries are used, and when a
particular library achieves broad adoption it makes sense for us to add
official support for it. Examples of libraries that have made the leap from
community supported to officially supported include [supabase-
flutter](https://github.com/supabase/supabase-flutter) and [supabase-
swift](https://github.com/supabase/supabase-swift/).

There has always been incredible community support for the Python client
libraries, over the last year and a half however we've seen a huge surge in
adoption. This has been driven by the broad adoption of Supabase in the AI and
ML community, many of whom are keen Pythonistas.

So today, we're announcing that the following Python Client Libraries are now
officially supported on the Supabase platform:

  * [supabase-py](https://github.com/supabase/supabase-py)
  * [auth-py](https://github.com/supabase/auth-py)
  * [storage-py](https://github.com/supabase/storage-py)
  * [functions-py](https://github.com/supabase/functions-py)
  * [realtime-py](https://github.com/supabase/realtime-py)

[supabase-py](https://github.com/supabase/supabase-py) was originally started
by maintainer [lqmanh](https://github.com/lqmanh) in September of 2020, and
was shortly after joined by [fedden](https://github.com/fedden) and
[J0](https://github.com/J0) (who went on to become a full time member of the
Supabase Team). In recent years development has been driven by
[silentworks](https://github.com/silentworks) and
[juancarlospaco](https://github.com/juancarlospaco) who have both been
instrumental in the push to reaching feature parity with [supabase-
js](https://github.com/supabase/supabase-js).

Thank you so much to everyone who has contributed to the client libs so far
and hopefully we'll see more community libs making the push for official
support in the future.

Below is an overview of some recent features added to the collection of Python
libs.

## Enabled HTTP2 by default#

Supabase clients will automatically use HTTP 2.0 when available by default,
offering a seamless performance boost to your existing applications.

This improvement is implemented in a completely transparent way, and requires
no changes to your existing code, while potentially delivering significant
latency reduction and performance enhancements.

See also:

  * <https://github.com/supabase/functions-py/pull/115>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/auth-py/pull/534>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/postgrest-py/pull/462>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/storage-py/pull/271>

## Follow redirects by default#

Supabase clients now automatically follow all HTTP redirects by default,
aligning with the behavior of Supabase clients in other programming languages.

This enhancement improves consistency across the ecosystem and simplifies the
handling of redirects, reducing the need for manual intervention in common
scenarios like URL changes or load balancing.

See also:

  * <https://github.com/supabase/postgrest-py/pull/449>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/functions-py/pull/107>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/storage-py/pull/257>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/auth-py/pull/511>

## Keep-alive enabled by default#

Supabase clients now automatically include a `keep-alive` HTTP header by
default, that was sometimes missing, addressing this inconsistency in previous
versions.

This enhancement optimizes connection management, potentially reducing
latency, and improving performance by maintaining persistent connections with
the server, especially beneficial for applications making very frequent API
calls.

## Edge Functions Regions#

Added support for specifying the region that the edge function will run on (a
region is basically a physical location in the world).

See also:

  * <https://github.com/supabase/functions-py/pull/126>

## Realtime V2#

Realtime has been upgraded to version `2.0` with lots of improvements and
fixes, including updated examples and the new Presence-related features
(broadcast, subscribe, track, etc).

See also:

  * <https://github.com/supabase/realtime-py/pull/139>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/realtime-py/pull/178>

## Auth improvements#

Anonymous logins have been added to the Auth client, including a new
`is_anonymous` boolean property that has been added to the class `User`, also
`sign_in_with_id_token()` and `sign_in_with_sso()` methods have been added to
the Auth Client, among a lot of other bug fixes.

See also:

  * <https://github.com/supabase/auth-py/pull/528>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/auth-py/pull/548>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/auth-py/pull/553>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/auth-py/pull/506>

## Postgrest quoting/escaping in queries#

Supabase improved PostgreSQL query safety by implementing `sanitize_param()`
for parameter sanitization in internal SQL queries on the client-side,
ensuring more secure data handling and query execution across all operations.

## Running with unverified SSL#

Some users need to run the Supabase clients with invalid or unverified SSL for
whatever reason (SSL debuggers/tracers/profilers/etc in development
environments), a new optional boolean argument was added to the constructors
of the clients, then passing `verify=False` enables it to run with unverified
SSL without warnings.

`  

_10

from postgrest import SyncPostgrestClient

_10

_10

url: str = "https://example.com"

_10

h: dict = {"Custom-Header": "value"}

_10

_10

with SyncPostgrestClient(url, schema="pub", headers=h, verify = False) as
client:

_10

session = client.session

_10

assert session.base_url == "https://example.com"

  
`

See also:

  * <https://github.com/supabase/functions-py/pull/106>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/storage-py/pull/256>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/auth-py/pull/506>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/postgrest-py/pull/448>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/supabase-py/pull/813>

## Close socket in Realtime#

The Supabase Realtime library now includes a new `close()` method for closing
the socket connections.

This addition provides developers with finer control over the connection
lifecycle, allowing explicit closing of the socket connections when needed.

`  

_19

import os

_19

from realtime import AsyncRealtimeClient

_19

_19

def callback1(payload):

_19

print("Callback 1: ", payload)

_19

_19

SUPABASE_ID: str = os.environ.get("SUPABASE_ID")

_19

API_KEY: str = os.environ.get("SUPABASE_KEY")

_19

_19

URL: str = f"wss://{SUPABASE_ID}.supabase.co/realtime/v1/websocket"

_19

_19

client = AsyncRealtimeClient(URL, API_KEY)

_19

await client.connect()

_19

_19

channel_1 = s.channel("realtime:public:sample")

_19

channel_1.subscribe().on_postgres_changes("INSERT", callback1)

_19

_19

await client.listen()

_19

await client.close()

  
`

See also:

  * <https://github.com/supabase-community/realtime-py/pull/142>

## Edge Functions timeouts#

Timeouts for Edge Functions are now fixed and long-running functions finish
correctly, there is no longer a library client-side internal timeout cutting
off the functions.

Users can now confidently implement more complex operations in Edge Functions.

`  

_12

import os

_12

from supabase import create_client

_12

from supabase.lib.client_options import ClientOptions

_12

_12

url: str = os.environ.get("SUPABASE_URL")

_12

key: str = os.environ.get("SUPABASE_KEY")

_12

_12

options = ClientOptions(function_client_timeout = 15)

_12

client = create_client(url, key, options)

_12

_12

client.functions.url = "http://127.0.0.1:54321/functions/v1/hello-world"

_12

print(client.functions.invoke("hello"))

  
`

See also:

  * <https://github.com/supabase/functions-py/pull/120>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/supabase-py/pull/846>

## New tool Vec2pg to migrate data to Supabase#

A new simple and extensible CLI tool to migrate vector data from other
services and SASS into Supabase was created, it can migrate vector data from
Pinecone and Qdrant into Supabase with a single command, streamlining
workflows and enhancing data portability across AI and ML projects.

You can vote for other vector database providers to be added in the future!

See also:

  * <https://github.com/supabase-community/vec2pg>
  * <https://github.com/supabase-community/vec2pg/pull/5>
  * <https://github.com/supabase-community/vec2pg/issues/6>

## Updated CI#

Continuous Integration builds for all the libraries have been upgraded and
made more strict (linters, etc).

See also:

  * <https://github.com/supabase/supabase-py/pull/772>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/supabase-py/pull/774>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/functions-py/pull/93>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/functions-py/pull/92>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/storage-py/pull/240>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/storage-py/pull/237>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/realtime-py/pull/132>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/realtime-py/pull/131>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/postgrest-py/pull/424>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/postgrest-py/pull/422>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/functions-py/pull/139>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/storage-py/pull/287>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/auth-py/pull/572>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/postgrest-py/pull/484>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/supabase-py/pull/887>
  * <https://github.com/supabase/realtime-py/pull/182>

## Miscellaneous#

  * Unittests coverage was improved across all code repositories.
  * Cyclomatic complexity has been analyzed and improved in all the libraries (mccabe, prospector).
  * Multiple fixes for code style, symbol naming, documentation, comments, and docstrings.

## Contributing#

If you'd like to get involved in contributing to our Python client libraries
see [here](https://github.com/supabase/supabase-py/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
for some information on how to contribute, and check the list of [open
issues](https://github.com/supabase/supabase-py/issues) for some inspiration
on what to work on.

## Getting started#

Full documentation is available for the Supabase Python Client libraries on
the [Supabase Docs
site](https://supabase.com/docs/reference/python/introduction).

[Launch Week12](/launch-week)

12-16 August

[Day 1 -postgres.new: In-browser Postgres with an AI
interface](/blog/postgres-new)[Day 2 -Realtime Broadcast and Presence
Authorization](/blog/supabase-realtime-broadcast-and-presence-
authorization)[Day 3 -Supabase Auth: Bring-your-own Auth0, Cognito, or
Firebase](/blog/third-party-auth-mfa-phone-send-hooks)[Day 4 -Introducing Log
Drains](/blog/log-drains)[Day 5 -Postgres Foreign Data Wrappers with
Wasm](/blog/postgres-foreign-data-wrappers-with-wasm)

Build Stage

[01 -GitHub Copilot](/blog/github-copilot-extension-for-vs-code)[02
-pg_replicate](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41209994)[03 -Snaplet is
now open source](/blog/snaplet-is-now-open-source)[04 -Supabase
Book](/blog/supabase-book-by-david-lorenz)[05
-PostgREST](/blog/postgrest-12-2)[06 -vec2pg](/blog/vec2pg)[07
-pg_graphql](/blog/pg-graphql-1-5-7)[08 -Platform Access
Control](/blog/platform-access-control)[09 -python-support](/blog/python-
support)[10 -Launch Week Summary](/blog/launch-week-12-top-10)[Community
Meetups](/launch-week#meetups)

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fpython-
support&text=Supabase%20Python)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fpython-
support&text=Supabase%20Python)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fpython-
support&t=Supabase%20Python)

[Last postPostgREST 12.2: Prometheus metrics16 August
2024](/blog/postgrest-12-2)

[Next postThe Supabase Book by David Lorenz16 August 2024](/blog/supabase-
book-by-david-lorenz)

[launch-week](/blog/tags/launch-week)[database](/blog/tags/database)

On this page

  * Enabled HTTP2 by default
  * Follow redirects by default
  * Keep-alive enabled by default
  * Edge Functions Regions
  * Realtime V2
  * Auth improvements
  * Postgrest quoting/escaping in queries
  * Running with unverified SSL
  * Close socket in Realtime
  * Edge Functions timeouts
  * New tool Vec2pg to migrate data to Supabase
  * Updated CI
  * Miscellaneous
  * Contributing
  * Getting started

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fpython-
support&text=Supabase%20Python)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fpython-
support&text=Supabase%20Python)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fpython-
support&t=Supabase%20Python)

## Build in a weekend, scale to millions

[Start your project](https://supabase.com/dashboard)[Request a
demo](/contact/sales)

