[Back](/blog)

[Blog](/blog)

# Supabase Hacktoberfest 2020

11 Sep 2020

â€¢

3 minute read

[![Thor Schaeff
avatar](/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fthorwebdev.png&w=96&q=75)Thor
SchaeffDevRel & DX](https://twitter.com/thorwebdev)

October is looming, and for open source communities and contributors this
means one thing: [Hacktoberfest](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/).

## What is Hacktoberfest?#

Hacktoberfest is a time to contribute to open source, improve your skills, and
build greater technology in the process. Last year during Hacktoberfest
483,127 pull requests were opened and 61,871 people completed the challenge.

To do our part, Supabase has planned a couple of events and activities
throughout Hacktober, and we'd love for you to join us!

## How do I get started?#

It's simple, just start contributing to **any** open source project. If you've
never contributed to open source, don't worry! Here are some resources to get
you started:

  * [How to write your first pull request](https://pages.news.digitalocean.com/n/Y0VKC0qX000hY0236IE0qDn)
  * [How to create a good commit message](https://pages.news.digitalocean.com/n/wIYDXKVE600000nr20h3r0C)
  * [Beginner resources for first-timers](https://pages.news.digitalocean.com/n/kE2b60X00B003IVhYn0cK0D)
  * [Hacktoberfestâ€™s quality standards](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/details/#quality)

## Supabase events#

Tune in to our online events.

### GitHub Open Source Friday live stream#

  * What: [@kiwicopple](https://github.com/kiwicopple) chats with the GitHub team about open source.
  * When: Fri, Sep 25, 11:00 AM (Thu, Sep 24, 8:00 PM PT)
  * Where: [GitHub Twitch channel](https://www.twitch.tv/github)

### Supabase Hacktoberfest Online Meetup#

  * What: Join us to learn more about Supabase and how to contribute during Hacktoberfest.
  * When: Fri, Oct 2, 9:00 AM SG time (Thu, Oct 1, 6:00 PM PT)
  * Where: [YouTube](https://youtu.be/3_xRLTjvEiE) | [Please RSVP here](https://organize.mlh.io/participants/events/4291-hacktoberfest-supabase-meetup)

## Contribute to Supabase and win a Hacktoberfest T-Shirt#

We've created a [GitHub project
board](https://github.com/orgs/supabase/projects/5) to keep track of what's
happening and can enjoy collaborating and hacking together ðŸ¥³

You can contribute to one of the existing `hacktoberfest` issue, or you can
grab one of the ideas from the notes in the project board and [open a new
issue](https://github.com/supabase/supabase/issues/choose) for it. Make sure
to tag the newly created issue with the `hacktoberfest` label. This will be
important for you to have a chance at getting the limited edition
Hacktoberfest T-Shirt. See the [participation
rules](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/details/#rules) for more
details.

### I'm a Developer#

Awesome, we've got a selection of small and larger [engineering
tasks](https://github.com/orgs/supabase/projects/5#column-10773067). From
creating examples for Blitz.js and Redwood.js to Postgres templates for
various use cases.

### I'm a Designer#

Nice, we would love [your
help](https://github.com/orgs/supabase/projects/5#column-10773073) with UX
improvements, illustrations, loading pages, or [lottie
animations](https://lottiefiles.com/).

### I'm a Writer#

Yay, we'd love your help with [improving and adding
docs](https://github.com/orgs/supabase/projects/5#column-10773075)!

## Happy hacking#

We'd love to see you at one of our events and have you contribute to Supabase
throughout Hacktoberfest! See you on the interweb ðŸ™‚

## Questions / ideas / feedback?#

We'd love to hear it, just [tweet at us](https://twitter.com/supabase), or
[open an issue](https://github.com/supabase/supabase/issues/choose).

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-
hacktoberfest-2020&text=Supabase%20Hacktoberfest%202020)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-
hacktoberfest-2020&text=Supabase%20Hacktoberfest%202020)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-
hacktoberfest-2020&t=Supabase%20Hacktoberfest%202020)

[Last postSupabase Alpha September 20203 October 2020](/blog/supabase-alpha-
september-2020)

[Next postSupabase Alpha August 20203 September 2020](/blog/supabase-alpha-
august-2020)

[supabase](/blog/tags/supabase)[hacktoberfest](/blog/tags/hacktoberfest)

On this page

  * What is Hacktoberfest?
  * How do I get started?
  * Supabase events
  * Contribute to Supabase and win a Hacktoberfest T-Shirt
  * Happy hacking
  * Questions / ideas / feedback?

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-
hacktoberfest-2020&text=Supabase%20Hacktoberfest%202020)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-
hacktoberfest-2020&text=Supabase%20Hacktoberfest%202020)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-
hacktoberfest-2020&t=Supabase%20Hacktoberfest%202020)

## Build in a weekend, scale to millions

[Start your project](https://supabase.com/dashboard)[Request a
demo](/contact/sales)

