[Back](/blog)

[Blog](/blog)

# Supabase Beta July 2022

03 Aug 2022

‚Ä¢

4 minute read

[![Ant Wilson
avatar](/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fawalias.png&w=96&q=75)Ant
WilsonCTO and Co-Founder](https://github.com/awalias)

![Supabase Beta July
2022](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2F2022-july%2Fthumb.png&w=3840&q=100)

It‚Äôs happening! Launch Week is back ‚úä. We are preparing lots of product
announcements and fun activities. Join us the week of August 15-19 for Launch
Week 5Ô∏è‚É£.

We don't ship only during Launch Weeks, so this month we still bring you some
great new stuff: Flutter SDK 1.0 (developer preview), Auth Helpers,
pg_jsonschema, and more.

## Launch Week Golden Ticket#

Register for [#SupaLaunchWeek 5](https://twitter.com/hashtag/SupaLaunchWeek)
and if you are lucky, you may pull a golden ticket and win a limited edition
Supabase goodie bag! [Get a ticket](https://supabase.com/launch-week).

## Supabase Flutter SDK 1.0 developer preview#

Supabase Flutter SDK is getting a major update, with a big focus on developer
experience. We shared a preview of what is to come so you can help us make it
even better with your feedback. [Read the
blog.](https://supabase.com/blog/supabase-flutter-sdk-1-developer-preview)

## Revamped Auth Helpers (now with SvelteKit support)#

We've been hard at work making an Auth experience that is as smooth as
possible for Supabase developers. The new Auth Helpers have a better
experience for server-side rendering (SSR) environments, new Github structure,
SvelteKit support, and more. [Read the
blog](https://supabase.com/blog/supabase-auth-helpers-with-sveltekit-support).

## pg_jsonschema ‚Äì A Postgres extension for JSON validation#

Born as an excuse to play with pgx, pg_jsonschema is a solution we're
exploring to allow enforcing more structure on json and jsonb typed postgres
columns. [Only 10 lines of
code](https://github.com/supabase/pg_jsonschema/tree/fb7ab09bf6050130e8d656f2999ec0f6a3fedc0d)
üòé

## hCaptcha integration#

The new hCpatcha integration allows you to implement captcha functionality for
auth. Enable hCaptcha protection in the auth settings to stop bots attacks and
protect your users' privacy. [Captcha
settings](https://supabase.com/docs/reference/tools/reference-auth).

## Updated Settings UI in dashboard#

We've started updating our settings UI, starting with the Auth settings.
You'll now see updated UI for setting up your [Auth
providers](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/auth/providers), [Email
templates](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/auth/templates), and [SMTP
config](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/auth/url-configuration).

## Quick product announcements#

\- Email OTP now supports 6-10 digits length.
[PR](https://github.com/supabase/gotrue/pull/513) \- GenerateLink method now
returns the email_otp, the hashed_token , the verification_type and the
redirect_to. [PR](https://github.com/supabase/gotrue/pull/537)

## Nuxt 3 Quickstart#

There is a new quickstart in town. The guide, powered by
[NuxtSupabase](https://supabase.nuxtjs.org/), shows how to build a simple user
management app using Supabase and Nuxt 3, including Database, Auth, Storage,
and more. [Get started](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/with-nuxt-3).

## Made with Supabase#

[BuyMeAPizza](https://www.buymea.pizza/) | A brand new, free, and open source service to accept donations in crypto on your website. Built with Next.js, Tailwind, Supabase, and Solana tools.

Discover other projects: [Made with
Supabase](https://www.madewithsupabase.com/)

## Community highlights#

The Supabase community is exploding and we‚Äôve reached a point where we can‚Äôt
fit everything into our monthly newsletter so here‚Äôs the full list of
community updates from July:

  * Netlify announced a new webinar series, Web Ecosystem, and we get to be part of it. [Blog Post](https://www.netlify.com/blog/web-ecosystem-webinar-series/)
  * Implementing "seen by" functionality with Postgres. [Blog Post](https://supabase.com/blog/seen-by-in-postgresql)
  * Open Source Startup Podcast with our CEO Paul Copplestone. [Podcast](https://anchor.fm/ossstartuppodcast/episodes/E43-Building-Supabase--the-Open-Source-Firebase-Alternative-e1ld637)
  * Scaleway listed 40+ of the best open-source tools to build your startup. [Blog Post](https://blog.scaleway.com/40-open-source-projects/)
  * Sign-up form with OTP and auto login using Supabase and Arengu. [Guide](https://www.arengu.com/tutorials/sign-up-form-with-otp-and-auto-login-using-supabase)
  * Setup Supabase with Nest.js. [Tutorial](https://blog.devgenius.io/setup-supabase-with-nest-js-85041b03ec3a)
  * Loading SportsDB data into Supabase. [Tutorial](https://dev.to/supabase/auto-generated-documentation-in-supabase-5e8o)
  * Introduction to Supabase: Postgres Database using Python. [Tutorial](https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2022/07/introduction-to-supabase-postgres-database-using-python/)
  * Supabase and SWR to fetch data updates in realtime using React Hooks. [Tutorial](https://dev.to/jakobpotosme/supabase-swr-3icp)
  * Protected routes using Next.js Edge Middleware & Supabase. [Tutorial](https://engineering.udacity.com/protected-routes-using-next-js-edge-middleware-supabase-f197ba7f503c)
  * Supabase backend demo with Bravo Studio. [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZWQeAmbYFzg)
  * Building a live demo with Supabase and AppSmith. [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xmb4JrTYhZg)
  * Auto-generated documentation in Supabase. [Tutorial](https://dev.to/supabase/auto-generated-documentation-in-supabase-5ecd)
  * Speeding Up Bulk Loading in PostgreSQL. [Blog Post](https://dev.to/supabase/speeding-up-bulk-loading-in-postgresql-41g5)
  * Installing React-Admin In A Remix App. [Tutorial](https://marmelab.com/blog/2022/07/01/add-react-admin-to-your-remix-app-using-supabase.html)
  * How to set up Supabase in React? And Some Useful Tips. [Tutorial](https://dev.to/eminvergil/how-to-setup-supabase-in-react-and-some-useful-tips-40oc)
  * My approach to authentication with Next.JS, Prisma & Supabase. [Guide](https://ktra99.hashnode.dev/my-approach-to-authentication-with-nextjs-prisma-supabase)

## We‚Äôre hiring#

Come join one of the fastest growing open source projects ever ü§ó

  * [Customer Success (US time zone)](https://boards.greenhouse.io/supabase/jobs/4594393004)
  * [Go-To-Market Recruiter](https://boards.greenhouse.io/supabase/jobs/4561503004)
  * [View all our openings](https://boards.greenhouse.io/supabase)

* * *

## Meme Zone#

If you made it this far in the blog post you deserve a treat. [Follow us on
Twitter](https://twitter.com/supabase) for more.

## Get started#

  * Start using Supabase today: **[supabase.com/dashboard](https://supabase.com/dashboard/)**
  * Make sure to **[star us on GitHub](https://github.com/supabase/supabase)**
  * Follow us **[on Twitter](https://twitter.com/supabase)**
  * Subscribe to our **[YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/supabase)**

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-
beta-update-
july-2022&text=Supabase%20Beta%20July%202022)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-
beta-update-
july-2022&text=Supabase%20Beta%20July%202022)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-
beta-update-july-2022&t=Supabase%20Beta%20July%202022)

[Last postSlack Consolidate: a slackbot built with Python and Supabase9 August
2022](/blog/slack-consolidate-slackbot-to-consolidate-messages)

[Next postSupabase Flutter SDK 1.0 Developer Preview2 August
2022](/blog/supabase-flutter-sdk-1-developer-preview)

[release-notes](/blog/tags/release-notes)

On this page

  * Launch Week Golden Ticket
  * Supabase Flutter SDK 1.0 developer preview
  * Revamped Auth Helpers (now with SvelteKit support)
  * pg_jsonschema ‚Äì A Postgres extension for JSON validation
  * hCaptcha integration
  * Updated Settings UI in dashboard
  * Quick product announcements
  * Nuxt 3 Quickstart
  * Made with Supabase
  * Community highlights
  * We‚Äôre hiring
  * Meme Zone
  * Get started

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-
beta-update-
july-2022&text=Supabase%20Beta%20July%202022)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-
beta-update-
july-2022&text=Supabase%20Beta%20July%202022)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-
beta-update-july-2022&t=Supabase%20Beta%20July%202022)

## Build in a weekend, scale to millions

[Start your project](https://supabase.com/dashboard)[Request a
demo](/contact/sales)

