[Back](/blog)

[Blog](/blog)

# supabase-flutter v1 Released

21 Oct 2022

â€¢

3 minute read

[![Tyler Shukert
avatar](/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fdshukertjr.png&w=96&q=75)Tyler
ShukertDevRel](https://twitter.com/dshukertjr)

![supabase-flutter v1
Released](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fflutter-v1-release%2Fflutter_v1_official_release.jpeg&w=3840&q=100)

A few months ago, we announced a [developer preview version of supabase-
flutter SDK](https://supabase.com/blog/supabase-flutter-sdk-1-developer-
preview). Since then, we have heard a lot of amazing feedback from the
community, and have been improving it. Today, we are happy to announce the
stable v1 of [supabase-flutter](https://pub.dev/packages/supabase_flutter).
You can also find the updated [quick start
guide](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/with-flutter),
[documentation](https://supabase.com/docs/reference/dart) and a [migration
guide from v0](https://supabase.com/docs/reference/dart/v0/upgrade-guide).

## What is new in v1?#

supabase-flutter v1 focuses on improved developer experience. The new version
requires far less boiler plate code as well as it provides more intuitive
APIs. Here are some highlights of the update.

### No more `.execute()`#

Previously, for `.select()`, `.insert()`, `.update()`, `.delete()` and
`.stream()` required `execute()` to be called at the end. On top of that,
errors are thrown, not returned, so you can be sure that you have the query
results in the returned value.

`  

_10

// Before

_10

final response = await supabase.from('messages').select().execute();

_10

final data = response.data;

_10

_10

// After

_10

final data = await supabase.from('messages').select();

  
`

### More predictable auth methods#

Names of the auth methods are more descriptive about what they do. Here are
some examples of the new methods:

`  

_10

await supabase.auth.signInWithPassword(email: email, password: password);

_10

_10

await supabase.auth.signInWithOAuth(Provider.github)

  
`

Also, `onAuthStateChange` returns stream, which feels more natural for anyone
coding in Dart.

`  

_10

supabase.auth.onAuthStateChange.listen((data) {

_10

final AuthChangeEvent event = data.event;

_10

final Session? session = data.session;

_10

});

  
`

### Realtime Multiplayer edition support#

During the last launch week, we announced the [general availability of
Realtime Multiplayer](https://supabase.com/blog/supabase-realtime-multiplayer-
general-availability). supabase-flutter now has first class support for the
two newly introduced realtime methods, broadcast and presence. Broadcast can
be used to share realtime data to all connected clients with low latency.
Presence is a way to let other connected clients know the status of the
client. You can visit [multiplayer.dev](http://multiplayer.dev) to see a quick
demo of the feature.

`  

_31

final channel = Supabase.instance.client.channel('my_channel');

_31

_31

// listen to `location` broadcast events

_31

channel.on(

_31

RealtimeListenTypes.broadcast,

_31

ChannelFilter(

_31

event: 'location',

_31

), (payload, [ref]) {

_31

// Do something exciting with the broadcast event

_31

});

_31

_31

// send `location` broadcast events

_31

channel.send(

_31

type: RealtimeListenTypes.broadcast,

_31

event: 'location',

_31

payload: {'lat': 1.3521, 'lng': 103.8198},

_31

);

_31

_31

// listen to presence states

_31

channel.on(RealtimeListenTypes.presence, ChannelFilter(event: 'sync'),

_31

(payload, [ref]) {

_31

// Do something exciting with the presence state

_31

});

_31

_31

// subscribe to the above changes

_31

channel.subscribe((status) async {

_31

if (status == 'SUBSCRIBED') {

_31

// if subscribed successfully, send presence event

_31

final status = await channel.track({'user_id': myUserId});

_31

}

_31

});

  
`

These are just tip of the iceberg of all the updates that we shipped in v1.
Check out the [documentation](https://supabase.com/docs/reference/dart/) to
see the full list.

## Acknowledgements#

It required massive support from the community to bring the supabase-flutter
to where it is today. I would like to thank everyone who has contributed to
the library, and a special thanks to [Bruno](https://github.com/bdlukaa) and
[Vinzent](https://github.com/Vinzent03), who have been key for this release.
We really could not have done it without you!

## Resources#

  * [Install supabase-flutter v1.0](https://pub.dev/packages/supabase_flutter)
  * [supabase-flutter documentation](https://supabase.com/docs/reference/dart/)
  * [v0 to v1 migration guide](https://supabase.com/docs/reference/dart/v0/upgrade-guide)
  * [Flutter Tutorial: building a Flutter chat app](https://supabase.com/blog/flutter-tutorial-building-a-chat-app)
  * [Flutter Tutorial - Part 2: Authentication and Authorization with RLS](https://supabase.com/blog/flutter-authentication-and-authorization-with-rls)
  * [How to build a real-time multiplayer game with Flutter Flame](https://supabase.com/blog/flutter-real-time-multiplayer-game)
  * [Build a Flutter app with Very Good CLI and Supabase](https://verygood.ventures/blog/flutter-app-very-good-cli-supabase)

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-
flutter-sdk-v1-released&text=supabase-
flutter%20v1%20Released)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-
flutter-sdk-v1-released&text=supabase-
flutter%20v1%20Released)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-
flutter-sdk-v1-released&t=supabase-flutter%20v1%20Released)

[Last postWhat is PostgreSQL commitfest and how to contribute27 October
2022](/blog/postgresql-commitfest)

[Next postsupabase-js v2 Released20 October 2022](/blog/supabase-
js-v2-released)

[flutter](/blog/tags/flutter)[mobile](/blog/tags/mobile)

On this page

  * What is new in v1?
    * No more `.execute()`
    * More predictable auth methods
    * Realtime Multiplayer edition support
  * Acknowledgements
  * Resources

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-
flutter-sdk-v1-released&text=supabase-
flutter%20v1%20Released)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-
flutter-sdk-v1-released&text=supabase-
flutter%20v1%20Released)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupabase-
flutter-sdk-v1-released&t=supabase-flutter%20v1%20Released)

## Build in a weekend, scale to millions

[Start your project](https://supabase.com/dashboard)[Request a
demo](/contact/sales)

