[Back](/blog)

[Blog](/blog)

# SupaClub

01 Apr 2023

•

3 minute read

[![Ant Wilson
avatar](/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fawalias.png&w=96&q=75)Ant
WilsonCTO and Co-Founder](https://github.com/awalias)

![SupaClub](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Fsupaclub%2Fsupaclub-
thumb.png&w=3840&q=100)

Announcing SupaClub (pronounced “Super-Clurb”), the world’s first Software
Engineering Nightclub.

Located on the Indonesian island of Bali, SupaClub is where the digital nomads
of South East Asia are mixing Hardcore Techno with Hardcore Engineering.

In March this year, some members of the Supabase team took advantage of the
fact that they can work fully remotely, and spent a week working in Bali. The
island is a great place to relax in coffee shops during the day, but when
night time rolled around our team faced a major problem - the large
established nightclubs of Bali would not allow our engineers to bring their
laptops into the club. They have strict rules against EMACS on the dance
floor, killing our dream of fixing bugs whilst jamming to 90s club anthems.

Our team got together and decided that we would do what we do best at
Supabase. We’d ship a fix, and today that fix becomes a reality.

SupaClub, situated near the beach in the Canggu neighborhood of Bali, will
open its doors this coming Friday. It can house 4000 developers across 4
floors, each with a dedicated DJ and breakout rooms. It has UltraSpeed 1Gbps
WiFi and bookable standing desks on every floor. VIP [SupaBrew bottle
service](https://supabase.com/blog/supabrew) is available inside private
conference rooms, complete with whiteboards and UltraWide monitors for full
immersion (Think WeWork-meets-Pacha).

In terms of beverage selection, [SupaBrew](https://supabase.com/blog/supabrew)
will of course be available behind the bar, along with a cocktail list that
includes:

  * **Bjarne Pisco Stroustrup** \- A back-to-basics tantalizing mix of tart, sweet, and silky pisco brandy that won't leave your pointers dangling
  * **The Linus** \- A spicy twist on the Bloody Mary, this aggressive blend will have you shouting for more
  * **Mojito-js** \- we would list the ingredients but our mixologists keep changing the spec
  * **HTML Highball** \- Not a real cocktail, more of a mocktail

SupaClub was made possible with the help of infamous Fyre Fest investor Ja
Rule and “Super Bass” songstress Niki Minaj, both of which will also be
performing on the opening night.

If you would like to reserve a spot on the guest list for the opening night
please email us at [[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-
protection#f49a9b869184988db48781849596958791da979b99) with a link to your
GitHub account and "Re: april fools" in the subject line. See you there.

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupaclub&text=SupaClub)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupaclub&text=SupaClub)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupaclub&t=SupaClub)

[Last postInfinite scroll with Next.js, Framer Motion, and Supabase4 April
2023](/blog/infinite-scroll-with-nextjs-framer-motion)

[Next postSupabase Beta February 20239 March 2023](/blog/supabase-beta-update-
february-2023)

[announcements](/blog/tags/announcements)

On this page

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupaclub&text=SupaClub)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupaclub&text=SupaClub)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fsupaclub&t=SupaClub)

## Build in a weekend, scale to millions

[Start your project](https://supabase.com/dashboard)[Request a
demo](/contact/sales)

