[Back](/blog)

[Blog](/blog)

# Supabase Auth: Bring-your-own Auth0, Cognito, or Firebase

14 Aug 2024

â€¢

4 minute read

[![Stojan Dimitrovski
avatar](/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fhf.png&w=96&q=75)Stojan
DimitrovskiEngineering](https://github.com/hf)

![Supabase Auth: Bring-your-own Auth0, Cognito, or
Firebase](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fblog%2Flw12%2Fthird-party-
auth%2Fthumb.png&w=3840&q=100)

Today we have 3 new announcements for Supabase Auth:

  1. Support for third-party Auth providers
  2. Phone-based Multi-factor Authentication (SMS and Whatsapp)
  3. New Auth Hooks for SMS and email

Let's dive into each new feature.

## Support for third-party Auth providers#

The headline feature today is [third-party
Authentication](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/third-party/overview).

Supabase is a modular platform. We've been designing it so that you can choose
which products you use with Postgres. You can use our own products (like
Supabase Auth) or external products (like Auth0), and _in theory_ the
experience should be just-as-delightful.

Until today, using third-party auth products required developers to translate
JWTs into a format compatible with Supabase Auth. This is difficult and
unmaintainable.

So we fixed it. Today we're adding first-class support for the following
third-party authentication products:

  1. [Auth0](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/third-party/firebase-auth)
  2. [AWS Cognito](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/third-party/aws-cognito) (standalone or via AWS Amplify)
  3. [Firebase Auth](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/third-party/firebase-auth)

Firebase Auth is currently under a private-alpha release stage, as we're still
improving the security developer experience when using it. [Register your
interest](https://forms.supabase.com/third-party-auth-with-firebase) and
someone from the team will reach out.

Migrating auth providers can be costly and technically challenging, especially
for applications with large user bases. You can use Supabase's native auth
offering alongside your third-party authentication provider to achieve a
disruption-free migration.

All of the third-party providers are supported in the Supabase CLI, so you can
evaluate, test, and develop your integration for free.

The Supabase client supports third-party auth like this:

`  

_10

import { createClient } from '@supabase/supabase-js'

_10

_10

const supabase = createClient(SUPABASE_URL, SUPABASE_ANON_KEY, {

_10

accessToken: async () => {

_10

const accessToken = await auth0.getTokenSilently()

_10

return accessToken

_10

},

_10

})

  
`

## Phone-based multi-factor authentication#

We've extended MFA to [support SMS and
WhatsApp](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/auth-mfa).

We have a strong conviction that all applications should have access to an
open and secure authentication provider. Secure-by-default should not be a
luxury: developers should have affordable access to security best-practices.

[Almost two years ago](https://supabase.com/blog/mfa-auth-via-rls) we launched
[MFA with TOTP (app
authenticator)](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/auth-mfa) free of
charge. Since then, we've heard a common complaint from developers: app
authenticators can be hard to adopt for non-techies. Phone-based MFA is for
those developers who want to provide a more accessible MFA experience for
their users.

No security product is infallible! MFA with SMS can come with some hidden
security drawbacks - please evaluate your application's risk tolerance for
SIM-swapping attacks.

The code looks like this:

`  

_14

// Send an SMS or WhatsApp message to the user

_14

const { data: { challengeId } } = await supabase.auth.mfa.challenge({

_14

factorId,

_14

})

_14

_14

// To verify the code received by the user

_14

await supabase.auth.mfa.verify({

_14

factorId,

_14

challengeId,

_14

code: '123456',

_14

})

_14

_14

// The user's `aal` claim in the JWT

_14

// will be upgraded to aal2

  
`

## Auth Hooks for SMS and Email#

We've added a few new [Auth Hooks](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/auth-
hooks), which supports HTTP endpoints as a webhook now.

**Email Hooks**

We've heard the (rather loud) feedback that the built-in email templates
(based on the Go templating language) can be limiting. There's been a lot of
development in email rendering libraries like [Resend's React
Email](https://resend.com/blog/react-email-2). To help make this available for
developers, we've added a ["Send Email" Auth
Hook](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/auth-hooks/send-email-hook), which
you can use to customize your emails and how they are sent.

**SMS Hooks**

Supabase Auth has built-in support for popular SMS sending providers like
Twilio, Messagebird, Textlocal and Vonage, but we realize this choice can be
limiting.

Today we're launching a new ["Send SMS" Auth
Hook](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/auth-hooks/send-sms-hook). You no
longer need to use the built-in provider - you can implement your own by
specifying a HTTP endpoint that receives a POST request when a message needs
to be sent.

## Getting started#

Check out the docs for more details on how to get started:

  * [Third-party Authentication](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/third-party/overview)
  * [Multi-factor Authentication](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/auth-mfa)
  * [Auth Hooks](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/auth-hooks)

[Launch Week12](/launch-week)

12-16 August

[Day 1 -postgres.new: In-browser Postgres with an AI
interface](/blog/postgres-new)[Day 2 -Realtime Broadcast and Presence
Authorization](/blog/supabase-realtime-broadcast-and-presence-
authorization)[Day 3 -Supabase Auth: Bring-your-own Auth0, Cognito, or
Firebase](/blog/third-party-auth-mfa-phone-send-hooks)[Day 4 -Introducing Log
Drains](/blog/log-drains)[Day 5 -Postgres Foreign Data Wrappers with
Wasm](/blog/postgres-foreign-data-wrappers-with-wasm)

Build Stage

[01 -GitHub Copilot](/blog/github-copilot-extension-for-vs-code)[02
-pg_replicate](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41209994)[03 -Snaplet is
now open source](/blog/snaplet-is-now-open-source)[04 -Supabase
Book](/blog/supabase-book-by-david-lorenz)[05
-PostgREST](/blog/postgrest-12-2)[06 -vec2pg](/blog/vec2pg)[07
-pg_graphql](/blog/pg-graphql-1-5-7)[08 -Platform Access
Control](/blog/platform-access-control)[09 -python-support](/blog/python-
support)[10 -Launch Week Summary](/blog/launch-week-12-top-10)[Community
Meetups](/launch-week#meetups)

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fthird-
party-auth-mfa-phone-send-hooks&text=Supabase%20Auth%3A%20Bring-your-
own%20Auth0%2C%20Cognito%2C%20or%20Firebase)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fthird-
party-auth-mfa-phone-send-hooks&text=Supabase%20Auth%3A%20Bring-your-
own%20Auth0%2C%20Cognito%2C%20or%20Firebase)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fthird-
party-auth-mfa-phone-send-hooks&t=Supabase%20Auth%3A%20Bring-your-
own%20Auth0%2C%20Cognito%2C%20or%20Firebase)

[Last postSnaplet is now open source14 August 2024](/blog/snaplet-is-now-open-
source)

[Next postSupabase Realtime: Broadcast and Presence Authorization13 August
2024](/blog/supabase-realtime-broadcast-and-presence-authorization)

[auth](/blog/tags/auth)[engineering](/blog/tags/engineering)

On this page

  * Support for third-party Auth providers
  * Phone-based multi-factor authentication
  * Auth Hooks for SMS and Email
  * Getting started

Share this article

[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fthird-
party-auth-mfa-phone-send-hooks&text=Supabase%20Auth%3A%20Bring-your-
own%20Auth0%2C%20Cognito%2C%20or%20Firebase)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fthird-
party-auth-mfa-phone-send-hooks&text=Supabase%20Auth%3A%20Bring-your-
own%20Auth0%2C%20Cognito%2C%20or%20Firebase)[](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fsupabase.com%2Fblog%2Fthird-
party-auth-mfa-phone-send-hooks&t=Supabase%20Auth%3A%20Bring-your-
own%20Auth0%2C%20Cognito%2C%20or%20Firebase)

## Build in a weekend, scale to millions

[Start your project](https://supabase.com/dashboard)[Request a
demo](/contact/sales)

